freedom of artistic creativity ; 
A juristic person is entitled to the rights in the Bill of Rights to the extent required by the nature of the rights and the nature of that juristic person . 
We , the people of South Africa , Recognise the injustices of our past ; 
Everyone has the right to bodily and psychological integrity , which includes the right- 
When applying a provision of the Bill of Rights to a natural or juristic person in terms of subsection , a court- 
The national anthem of the Republic is determined by the President by proclamation . 
No one may be subjected to slavery , servitude or forced labour . 
Republic of South Africa 
Every citizen is free to make political choices , which includes the right- 
Improve the quality of life of all citizens and free the potential of each person ; 
to vote in elections for any legislative body established in terms of the Constitution , and to do so in secret ; 
Everyone has the right to life . 
all official languages ; 
and to stand for public office and , if elected , to hold office . 
Everyone is equal before the law and has the right to equal protection and benefit of the law . 
those observances follow rules made by the appropriate public authorities ; 
to be free from all forms of violence from either public or private sources ; 
Freedom of religion , belief and opinion 
Everyone has the right to freedom and security of the person , which includes the right- 
Application 
Supremacy of the constitution and the rule of law . 
and may develop rules of the common law to limit the right , provided that the limitation is in accordance with section 36 . 
Every adult citizen has the right- 
and Believe that South Africa belongs to all who live in it , united in our diversity . 
and sign language ; 
in order to give effect to a right in the Bill , must apply , or if necessary develop , the common law to the extent that legislation does not give effect to that right ; 
Preamble 
and to the extent that , it is applicable , taking into account the nature of the right and the nature of any duty imposed by the right . 
or advocacy of hatred that is based on race , 
May God protect our people . 
but the national government and each provincial government must use at least two official languages . 
Honour those who suffered for justice and freedom in our land ; 
The Bill of Rights applies to all law , and binds the legislature , the executive , the judiciary and all organs of state . 
propaganda for war ; 
Religious observances may be conducted at state or state-aided institutions , provided that- 
The national flag of the Republic is black , gold , green , white , red and blue , as described and sketched in Schedule 1 . 
freedom of the press and other media ; 
Political rights 
Everyone has the right to privacy , which includes the right not to have- 
equally entitled to the rights , privileges and benefits of citizenship ; 
Human dignity , the achievement of equality and the advancement of human rights and freedoms . 
Citizenship 
all languages commonly used by communities in South Africa , including German , Greek , Gujarati , Hindi , Portuguese , Tamil , Telegu and Urdu ; 
Heal the divisions of the past and establish a society based on democratic values , social justice and fundamental human rights ; 
This Constitution is the supreme law of the Republic ; 
This Bill of Rights is a cornerstone of democracy in South Africa . 
Equality 
FOUNDING PROVISIONS 
Privacy 
the Khoi , Nama and San languages ; 
Freedom of association 
and not to be subjected to medical or scientific experiments without their informed consent . 
A provision of the Bill of Rights binds a natural or a juristic person if , 
Every citizen has the right to free , fair and regular elections for any legislative body established in terms of the Constitution . 
not to be detained without trial ; 
There is a common South African citizenship . 
National flag 
The rights in the Bill of Rights are subject to the limitations contained or referred to in section 36 , or elsewhere in the Bill . 
or the privacy of their communications infringed . 
Everyone has inherent dignity and the right to have their dignity respected and protected . 
Respect those who have worked to build and develop our country ; 
Everyone has the right , peacefully and unarmed , to assemble , to demonstrate , to picket and to present petitions . 
The state must respect , protect , promote and fulfil the rights in the Bill of Rights . 
to make decisions concerning reproduction ; 
and open society in which government is based on the will of the people and every citizen is equally protected by law ; 
marriages concluded under any tradition , or a system of religious , personal or family law ; 
Discrimination on one or more of the grounds listed in subsection is unfair unless it is established that the discrimination is fair . 
The official languages of the Republic are Sepedi , Sesotho , Setswana , siSwati , Tshivenda , Xitsonga , Afrikaans , English , isiNdebele , isiXhosa and isiZulu . 
A Pan South African Language Board established by national legislation must- 
This section does not prevent legislation recognising- 
Rights 
Human dignity 
ethnicity , gender or religion , and that constitutes incitement to cause harm . 
All citizens are- 
and not to be treated or punished in a cruel , inhuman or degrading way . 
and promote and ensure respect for- 
and to campaign for a political party or cause . 
Equality includes the full and equal enjoyment of all rights and freedoms . 
or systems of personal and family law under any tradition , or adhered to by persons professing a particular religion . 
they are conducted on an equitable basis ; 
The national government and provincial governments , by legislative and other measures , must regulate and monitor their use of official languages . 
to participate in the activities of , or recruit members for , a political party ; 
It enshrines the rights of all people in our country and affirms the democratic values of human dignity , equality and freedom . 
practicality , expense , regional circumstances and the balance of the needs and preferences of the population as a whole or in the province concerned ; 
Recognising the historically diminished use and status of the indigenous languages of our people , the state must take practical and positive measures to elevate the status and advance the use of these languages . 
promote , and create conditions for , the development and use of- 
to security in and control over their body ; 
Slavery , servitude and forced labour 
Freedom and security of the person 
to form a political party ; 
and equally subject to the duties and responsibilities of citizenship . 
Recognition in terms of paragraph must be consistent with this section and the other provisions of the Constitution . 
Assembly , demonstration picket and petition 
Without detracting from the provisions of subsection , all official languages must enjoy parity of esteem and must be treated equitably . 
Everyone has the right to freedom of expression , which includes- 
To promote the achievement of equality , legislative and other measures designed to protect or advance persons , or categories of persons , disadvantaged by unfair discrimination may be taken . 
The national government and provincial governments may use any particular official languages for the purposes of government , taking into account usage , 
, ethnic or social origin , colour , sexual orientation , age , disability , religion , conscience , belief , culture , language and birth . 
their property searched ; 
and attendance at them is free and voluntary . 
Non-racialism and non-sexism . 
and Arabic , Hebrew , Sanskrit and other languages used for religious purposes in South Africa . 
Build a united and democratic South Africa able to take its rightful place as a sovereign state in the family of nations . 
Supremacy of Constitution 
BILL OF RIGHTS 
The state may not unfairly discriminate directly or indirectly against anyone on one or more grounds , including race , gender , sex , pregnancy , marital status 
National legislation must provide for the acquisition , loss and restoration of citizenship . 
their possessions seized ; 
The Republic of South Africa is one , sovereign , democratic state founded on the following values : 
Universal adult suffrage , a national common voters roll , regular elections and a multiparty system of democratic government , to ensure accountability , responsiveness and openness . 
We therefore , through our freely elected representatives , adopt this Constitution as the supreme law of the Republic so as to- 
law or conduct inconsistent with it is invalid , and the obligations imposed by it must be fulfilled . 
Everyone has the right to freedom of conscience , religion , thought , belief and opinion . 
No person may unfairly discriminate directly or indirectly against anyone on one or more grounds in terms of subsection . 
National legislation must be enacted to prevent or prohibit unfair discrimination . 
freedom to receive or impart information or ideas ; 
and academic freedom and freedom of scientific research . 
CHAPTER 2 
their person or home searched ; 
Languages 
National anthem 
not to be deprived of freedom arbitrarily or without just cause ; 
CHAPTER 1 
Everyone has the right to freedom of association . 
Municipalities must take into account the language usage and preferences of their residents . 
not to be tortured in any way ; 
Freedom of trade , occupation and profession 
Every citizen has the right to a passport . 
No citizen may be deprived of citizenship . 
The practice of a trade , occupation or profession may be regulated by law . 
Every citizen has the right to choose their trade , occupation or profession freely . 
Everyone has the right to freedom of movement . 
Republic . 
Citizenship 
Lay the foundations for a democratic 
Everyone has the right to leave the Republic . 
Every citizen has the right to enter , to remain in and to reside anywhere in , the 
Freedom of movement and residence 
National security must reflect the resolve of South Africans , as individuals and as a nation , 
to protect and secure the inhabitants of the Republic and their property , and to uphold and enforce the law . 
A member of the Cabinet must be responsible for policing and must determine national policing policy 
to monitor and investigate adherence to applicable procedures in the public service ; 
to promote good relations between the police and the community ; 
Within public administration there is a public service for the Republic , 
favour or prejudice in the interest of the maintenance of effective and efficient public administration and a high standard of professional ethics in the public service . 
Commissioners referred to in subsection may exercise the powers and perform the functions of the Commission in their provinces as prescribed by national legislation . 
If Parliament is not sitting when a state of national defence is declared , the President must summon Parliament to an extraordinary sitting within seven days of the declaration . 
A committee composed of the Cabinet member and the members of the Executive Councils responsible for policing must be established to ensure effective coordination of the police service and effective cooperation among the spheres of government . 
Parliament within seven days of the declaration . 
To give effect to the principles of transparency and accountability , multiparty parliamentary committees , have oversight of all security services in a manner determined by national legislation or the rules and orders of Parliament . 
Public administration must be governed by the democratic values and principles enshrined in the Constitution , including the following principles : 
and subject to the power of the National Commissioner to exercise control over and manage the police service in terms of subsection . 
The security services of the Republic consist of a single defence force , a single police service and any intelligence services established in terms of the Constitution . 
If Parliament does not sit during the first seven days after the defence force is employed as envisaged in subsection , the President must provide the information required in subsection to the appropriate oversight committee . 
The provincial commissioner must report to the provincial legislature annually on policing in the province , and must send a copy of the report to the National 
The provincial commissioners are responsible for policing in their respective provinces- 
Efficient , economic and effective use of resources must be promoted . 
State of national defence 
the adoption by the Assembly of a resolution calling for that commissioners removal ; 
If the provincial commissioner has lost the confidence of the provincial executive , 
The security services must be structured and regulated by national legislation . 
to report in respect of its activities and the performance of its functions , including any finding it may make and directions 
The President as head of the national executive must appoint a woman or a man as the National Commissioner of the police service , to control and manage the police service . 
that executive may institute appropriate proceedings for the removal or transfer of , or disciplinary action against , that commissioner , in accordance with national legislation . 
A high standard of professional ethics must be promoted and maintained . 
and allocated to it in the national policing policy . 
Employees are entitled to a fair pension as regulated by national legislation . 
and must make recommendations to the Cabinet member responsible for policing . 
Any intelligence service , other than any intelligence division of the defence force or police service , may be established only by the President , 
The Commission is accountable to the National Assembly . 
The National Commissioner must exercise control over and manage the police service in accordance with the national policing policy and the directions of the Cabinet member responsible for policing . 
and approved by the legislature by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote of a majority of its members . 
A declaration of a state of national defence lapses unless it is approved by 
as head of the national executive , and only in terms of national legislation . 
and civilian monitoring of the activities of those services by an inspector appointed by the President , as head of the national executive , 
Only the President , as head of the national executive , may authorise the employment of the defence force- 
Defence civilian secretariat 
Political responsibility 
Intelligence Establishment and control of intelligence services 
A civilian secretariat for defence must be established by national legislation to function under the direction of the Cabinet member responsible for defence . 
and advice it may give , and to provide an evaluation of the extent to which the values and principles set out in section 195 are complied with ; 
The resolve to live in peace and harmony precludes any South African citizen from participating in armed conflict , nationally or internationally , except as provided for in terms of the Constitution or national legislation . 
The defence force is the only lawful military force in the Republic . 
A commissioner is appointed for a term of five years , which is renewable for one additional term only , and must be a woman or a man who is- 
the reasons for the declaration ; 
the reasons for the employment of the defence force ; 
which must function , and be structured , in terms of national legislation , and which must loyally execute the lawful policies of the government of the day . 
No member of any security service may obey a manifestly illegal order . 
recommended by a committee of the provincial legislature that is proportionally composed of members of all parties represented in the legislature ; 
National legislation must establish the powers and functions of the police service and must enable the police service to discharge its responsibilities effectively , taking into account the requirements of the provinces . 
The terms and conditions of employment in the public service must be regulated by national legislation . 
Neither the security services , nor any of their members , may , in the performance of their functions- 
National legislation must regulate the objects , powers and functions of the intelligence services , including any intelligence division of the defence force or police service , and must provide for- 
Public administration must be accountable . 
Police civilian secretariat 
the coordination of all intelligence services ; 
and approved by a resolution adopted by the National Assembly with a supporting vote of at least two thirds of its members . 
assigned to it in terms of national legislation ; 
and one commissioner for each province nominated by the Premier of the province in accordance with subsection . 
or written notification by the Premier that the provincial legislature has adopted a resolution calling for that commissioners removal . 
The appointment in public administration of a number of persons on policy considerations is not precluded , but national legislation must regulate these appointments in the public service . 
to investigate grievances of employees in the public service concerning official acts or omissions , and recommend appropriate remedies ; 
must investigate any alleged misconduct of , or offence committed by , a member of the police service in the province . 
Political responsibility 
Establishment , structuring and conduct of security services 
including those relating to the recruitment , appointment , transfer , discharge and other aspects of the careers of employees in the public service . 
Each province is entitled- 
Peoples needs must be responded to , and the public must be encouraged to participate in policymaking . 
The following principles govern national security in the Republic : 
may investigate , or appoint a commission of inquiry into , any complaints of police inefficiency or a breakdown in relations between the police and any community ; 
and in respect of its activities in a province , to the legislature of that province . 
A provincial executive is responsible for policing functions- 
In order to perform the functions set out in subsection , a province- 
A commissioner appointed in terms of subsection must be- 
and to liaise with the Cabinet member responsible for policing with respect to crime and policing in the province . 
vested in it by this Chapter ; 
CHAPTER 10 
On receipt of a complaint lodged by a provincial executive , an independent police complaints body established by national legislation 
organs of state ; 
The national policing policy may make provision for different policies in respect of different provinces after taking into account the policing needs and priorities of these provinces . 
National security is subject to the authority of Parliament and the national executive . 
National security must be pursued in compliance with the law , including international law . 
Good human-resource management and career-development practices , to maximise human potential , must be cultivated . 
The above principles apply to- 
after consulting the provincial governments and taking into account the policing needs and priorities of the provinces as determined by the provincial executives . 
A commissioner may be removed from office only on- 
The national police service must be structured to function in the national , provincial and , where appropriate , local spheres of government . 
prejudice a political party interest that is legitimate in terms of the Constitution ; 
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION Basic values and principles governing public administration 
and the period for which the force is expected to be employed . 
to live as equals , to live in peace and harmony , to be free from fear and want and to seek a better life . 
to oversee the effectiveness and efficiency of the police service , including receiving reports on the police service ; 
to investigate , monitor and evaluate the organisation and administration , and the personnel practices , of the public service ; 
A commissioner nominated by the Premier of a province must be- 
in cooperation with the police service ; 
to give directions aimed at ensuring that personnel procedures relating to recruitment , transfers , promotions and dismissals comply with the values and principles set out in section 195 ; 
Powers , functions and monitoring 
or further , in a partisan manner , any interest of a political party . 
Services must be provided impartially , fairly , equitably and without bias . 
A civilian secretariat for the police service must be established by national legislation to function under the direction of the Cabinet member responsible for policing . 
Command of defence force 
to assess the effectiveness of visible policing ; 
No person or organ of state may interfere with the functioning of the Commission . 
Other organs of state , through legislative and other measures , must assist and protect the Commission to ensure the independence , impartiality , dignity and effectiveness of the Commission . 
or in fulfilment of an international obligation . 
Other than the security services established in terms of the Constitution , armed organisations or services may be established only in terms of national legislation . 
ability , objectivity , fairness , and the need to redress the imbalances of the past to achieve broad representation . 
The defence force must be structured and managed as a disciplined military force . 
Public administration must be broadly representative of the South African people , with employment and personnel management practices based on 
to investigate and evaluate the application of personnel and public administration practices , and to report to the relevant executive authority and legislature ; 
Public administration must be development-oriented . 
When the defence force is employed for any purpose mentioned in subsection , the President must inform Parliament , promptly and in appropriate detail , of- 
A member of the Cabinet must be responsible for defence . 
to propose measures to ensure effective and efficient performance within the public service ; 
The security services must act , and must teach and require their members to act , in accordance with the Constitution and the law , including customary international law and international agreements binding on the Republic . 
and the number of people involved . 
as prescribed by national legislation ; 
The President as head of the national executive must appoint a woman or a man as head of each intelligence service established in terms of subsection , 
to promote the values and principles set out in section 195 , throughout the public service ; 
and must either assume political responsibility for the control and direction of any of those services , or designate a member of the Cabinet to assume that responsibility . 
recommended by a committee of the National Assembly that is proportionally composed of members of all parties represented in the Assembly ; 
any place where the defence force is being employed ; 
Transparency must be fostered by providing the public with timely , accessible and accurate information . 
the ground of misconduct , incapacity or incompetence ; 
The Commission must be regulated by national legislation . 
A provincial legislature may require the provincial commissioner of the province to appear before it or any of its committees to answer questions . 
The President as head of the national executive may declare a state of national defence , and must inform Parliament promptly and in appropriate detail of- 
The nature and functions of different sectors , administrations or institutions of public administration are relevant factors to be taken into account in legislation regulating public administration . 
CHAPTER 11 
Provincial governments are responsible for the recruitment , appointment , promotion , transfer and dismissal of members of the public service in their administrations within a framework of uniform norms and standards applying to the public service . 
The President as head of the national executive is Commander-in-Chief of the defence force , and must appoint the Military Command of the defence force . 
The objects of the police service are to prevent , combat and investigate crime , to maintain public order , 
National legislation must provide a framework for the establishment , powers , functions and control of municipal police services . 
There is a single Public Service Commission for the Republic . 
The primary object of the defence force is to defend and protect the Republic , its territorial integrity and its people in accordance with the Constitution and the principles of international law regulating the use of force . 
and approved by the Assembly by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote of a majority of its members . 
and either of its own accord or on receipt of any complaint- 
The Commission is independent and must be impartial , and must exercise its powers and perform its functions without fear , 
National legislation must ensure the promotion of the values and principles listed in subsection . 
Five commissioners approved by the National Assembly in accordance with subsection ; 
No employee of the public service may be favoured or prejudiced only because that person supports a particular political party or cause . 
and the adoption by the Assembly or the provincial legislature concerned , of a resolution with a supporting vote of a majority of its members calling for the commissioners removal from office . 
An Act of Parliament must regulate the procedure for the appointment of commissioners . 
The Commission must report at least once a year in terms of subsection to the National Assembly ; 
The powers and functions of the Commission are- 
a South African citizen ; 
The National Commissioner , with the concurrence of the provincial executive , must appoint a woman or a man as the provincial commissioner for that province , 
Command of the defence force must be exercised in accordance with the directions of the Cabinet member responsible for defence , under the authority of the President . 
but if the National Commissioner and the provincial executive are unable to agree on the appointment , the Cabinet member responsible for policing must mediate between the parties . 
any place where the force is being employed ; 
and a fit and proper person with knowledge of , or experience in , administration , management or the provision of public services . 
Legislation regulating public administration may differentiate between different sectors , administrations or institutions . 
administration in every sphere of government ; 
and public enterprises . 
The President must remove the relevant commissioner from office upon- 
a finding to that effect by a committee of the National Assembly or , in the case of a commissioner nominated by the Premier of a province , by a committee of the legislature of that province ; 
and to advise national and provincial organs of state regarding personnel practices in the public service , 
National legislation referred to in subsection may be enacted only after any recommendations of the Financial and Fiscal Commission have been considered . 
The institution , status and role of traditional leadership , according to customary law , are recognised , subject to the Constitution . 
proposals for financing any anticipated deficit for the period to which they apply ; 
The Commission consists of the following women and men appointed by the 
Members of the Commission must have appropriate expertise . 
and uniform treasury norms and standards . 
The Commission must function in terms of an Act of Parliament and , in performing its functions , must consider all relevant factors , including those listed in section 214 . 
Recognition 
in terms of an appropriation by an Act of Parliament ; 
or as a direct charge against the Provincial Revenue Fund , when it is provided for in the Constitution or a provincial Act . 
An Act of Parliament must provide for- 
Equitable shares and allocations of revenue 
Additional revenue raised by provinces or municipalities may not be deducted from their share of revenue raised nationally , or from other allocations made to them out of national government revenue . 
estimates of revenue and expenditure , differentiating between capital and current expenditure ; 
Establishment and functions 
Powers and functions 
The primary object of the South African Reserve Bank is to protect the value of the currency in the interest of balanced and sustainable economic growth in the Republic . 
A traditional authority that observes a system of customary law may function subject to any applicable legislation and customs , which includes amendments to , or repeal of , that legislation or those customs . 
The President may remove a member from office on the ground of misconduct , incapacity or incompetence . 
and must take into account- 
taxes , levies and duties other than income tax , value-added tax , general sales tax , rates on property or customs duties ; 
Money may be withdrawn from the National Revenue Fund only- 
and an indication of intentions regarding borrowing and other forms of public liability that will increase public debt during the ensuing year . 
Revenue allocated through a province to local government in that province in terms of section 214 , is a direct charge against that provinces Revenue Fund. 
is entitled to an equitable share of revenue raised nationally to enable it to provide basic services and perform the functions allocated to it ; 
permanent delegates to the National Council of Provinces , members of the Cabinet , Deputy Ministers , traditional leaders and members of any councils of traditional leaders ; 
uniform expenditure classifications ; 
A decision to stop the transfer of funds due to a province in terms of section may be taken only in the circumstances mentioned in subsection and- 
The Commission is independent and subject only to the Constitution and the law , and must be impartial . 
A province may raise loans for capital or current expenditure in accordance with national legislation , 
General Financial Matters 
the fiscal capacity and efficiency of the provinces and municipalities ; 
and may receive other allocations from national government revenue , either conditionally or unconditionally . 
and flat-rate surcharges on any tax , levy or duty that is imposed by national legislation , other than on corporate income tax , value-added tax , rates on property or customs duties . 
obligations of the provinces and municipalities in terms of national legislation ; 
There is a Financial and Fiscal Commission for the Republic which makes recommendations envisaged in this Chapter , or in national legislation , to Parliament , provincial legislatures and any other authorities determined by national legislation . 
Nothing in this section precludes the sharing of revenue raised in terms of this section between municipalities that have fiscal power and functions in the same area . 
the equitable division of revenue raised nationally among the national , provincial and local spheres of government ; 
When an organ of state in the national , provincial or local sphere of government , or any other institution identified in national legislation , contracts for goods or services , 
Establishment 
The power of a municipality to impose rates on property , surcharges on fees for services provided by or on behalf of the municipality , or other taxes , levies or duties- 
Each year , every government must publish a report on the guarantees it has granted . 
National Revenue Fund 
when national and provincial budgets must be tabled ; 
and may stop the transfer of funds to an organ of state if that organ of state commits a serious or persistent material breach of those measures . 
The national executive , a provincial executive , a municipality or any other relevant authority may implement the national legislation referred to in subsection only after considering any recommendations of the commission established in terms of subsection . 
any provision that must be made in respect of the national debt and other national obligations ; 
and the upper limit of salaries , allowances or benefits of members of provincial legislatures , members of Executive Councils and members of Municipal Councils of the different categories . 
The courts must apply customary law when that law is applicable , subject to the Constitution and any legislation that specifically deals with customary law . 
The fiscal capacity of each municipality . 
National , provincial and municipal budgets 
There is a National Revenue Fund into which all money received by the national government must be paid , except money reasonably excluded by an Act of Parliament . 
CHAPTER 12 
National legislation must establish frameworks for determining the salaries , allowances and benefits of judges , the Public Protector , the Auditor-General , 
Treasury control 
Provincial and Local Financial Matters 
A chairperson and deputy chairperson ; 
Subsection does not prevent the organs of state or institutions referred to in that subsection from implementing a procurement policy providing for- 
may be raised only when necessary for bridging purposes during a fiscal year . 
may not be exercised in way that materially and unreasonably prejudices national economic policies , economic activities across provincial boundaries , or the national mobility of goods , services , capital or labour ; 
the need to ensure that the provinces and municipalities are able to provide basic services and perform the functions allocated to them ; 
and the province must be given an opportunity to answer the allegations against it , and to state its case , before a committee . 
The power of a provincial legislature to impose taxes , levies , duties and surcharges- 
The national government , a provincial government or a municipality may guarantee a loan only if the guarantee complies with any conditions set out in national legislation . 
the national interest ; 
To deal with matters relating to traditional leadership , the role of traditional leaders , customary law and the customs of communities observing a system of customary law- 
Equity . 
but no municipality may impose income tax , value-added tax , general sales tax or customs duty . 
and must be regulated in terms of an Act of Parliament , which may be enacted only after any recommendations of the Financial and Fiscal Commission have been considered . 
Money may be withdrawn from a Provincial Revenue Fund only- 
National legislation must prescribe a framework within which the policy referred to in subsection must be implemented . 
An Act of Parliament must establish a framework for determining- 
Provincial taxes 
The South African Reserve Bank is the central bank of the Republic and is regulated in terms of an Act of Parliament . 
and that budgets in each sphere of government must show the sources of revenue and the way in which proposed expenditure will comply with national legislation . 
Financial and Fiscal Commission 
in terms of an appropriation by a provincial Act ; 
and any other allocations to provinces , local government or municipalities from the national governments share of that revenue , and any conditions on which those allocations may be made . 
A provinces equitable share of revenue raised nationally is a direct charge against the National Revenue Fund. 
Provincial Revenue Funds 
the desirability of stable and predictable allocations of revenue shares ; 
National legislation must establish an independent commission to make recommendations concerning the salaries , allowances and benefits referred to in subsection . 
and may be regulated by national legislation . 
but loans for current expenditure 
Before Parliament may approve or renew a decision to stop the transfer of funds to a province- 
When two municipalities have the same fiscal powers and functions with regard to the same area , an appropriate division of those powers and functions must be made in terms of national legislation . 
The effectiveness and efficiency of raising taxes , levies and duties . 
President , as head of the national executive : 
Budgets in each sphere of government must contain- 
There is a Provincial Revenue Fund for each province into which all money received by the provincial government must be paid , except money reasonably excluded by an Act of Parliament . 
but there must be regular consultation between the Bank and the Cabinet member responsible for national financial matters . 
National legislation referred to in subsection may be enacted only after any recommendations of the Financial and Fiscal Commission have been considered . 
Government guarantees 
This process must be completed within 30 days of the decision by the national treasury . 
generally recognised accounting practice ; 
The national treasury must enforce compliance with the measures established in terms of subsection , 
the form of national , provincial and municipal budgets ; 
the salaries , allowances and benefits of members of the National Assembly , 
A provinces equitable share of revenue raised nationally must be transferred to the province promptly and without deduction , except when the transfer has been stopped in terms of section 216 . 
national or provincial legislation may provide for the establishment of houses of traditional leaders ; 
National legislation may provide for a role for traditional leadership as an institution at local level on matters affecting local communities . 
National legislation must establish a national treasury and prescribe measures to ensure both transparency and expenditure control in each sphere of government , by introducing- 
National legislation must prescribe- 
Role of traditional leaders 
Local government and each province- 
rates on property and surcharges on fees for services provided by or on behalf of the municipality ; 
the determination of each provinces equitable share of the provincial share of that revenue ; 
National legislation envisaged in this section may be enacted only after organised local government and the Financial and Fiscal Commission have been consulted , and any recommendations of the Commission have been considered . 
and must be exercised or performed subject to the conditions prescribed in terms of that Act . 
the needs and interests of the national government , determined by objective criteria ; 
A province must provide for itself any resources that it requires , in terms of a provision of its provincial constitution , that are additional to its requirements envisaged in the Constitution . 
it must do so in accordance with a system which is fair , equitable , transparent , competitive and cost-effective . 
Central Bank 
The need to comply with sound principles of taxation . 
A provincial legislature may impose- 
The South African Reserve Bank , in pursuit of its primary object , must perform its functions independently and without fear , favour or prejudice , 
TRADITIONAL LEADERS 
CHAPTER 13 
FINANCE 
Members serve for a term established in terms of national legislation . 
Primary object 
The powers and functions of the South African Reserve Bank are those customarily exercised and performed by central banks , which powers and functions must be determined by an Act of Parliament 
The division may be made only after taking into account at least the following criteria : 
or as a direct charge against the National Revenue Fund , when it is provided for in the Constitution or an Act of Parliament . 
Equally , there is no obligation on the national government to compensate provinces or municipalities that do not raise revenue commensurate with their fiscal capacity and tax base . 
and the need for flexibility in responding to emergencies or other temporary needs , and other factors based on similar objective criteria . 
Appointment and tenure of members 
The powers and functions performed by each municipality . 
may not stop the transfer of funds for more than 120 days ; 
developmental and other needs of provinces , local government and municipalities ; 
categories of preference in the allocation of contracts ; 
and may be enforced immediately , but will lapse retrospectively unless Parliament approves it following a process substantially the same as that established in terms of section 76 
The Commission must report regularly both to Parliament and to the provincial legislatures . 
may not be exercised in a way that materially and unreasonably prejudices national economic policies , economic activities across municipal boundaries , or the national mobility of goods , services , capital or labour ; 
National , provincial and municipal budgets and budgetary processes must promote transparency , accountability and the effective financial management of the economy , debt and the public sector . 
Subject to subsections , and , a municipality may impose- 
Remuneration of persons holding public office 
Parliament may renew a decision to stop the transfer of funds for no more than days at a time , following the process established in terms of subsection . 
and if authorised by national legislation , other taxes , levies and duties appropriate to local government or to the category of local government into which that municipality falls , 
and national legislation may establish a council of traditional leaders . 
economic disparities within and among the provinces ; 
The Act referred to in subsection may be enacted only after the provincial governments , organised local government and the Financial and Fiscal Commission have been consulted , and any recommendations of the Commission have been considered , 
the Auditor-General must report to Parliament ; 
Parliament may pass the legislation referred to in subsection only after considering any recommendations of the commission established in terms of subsection . 
Provincial loans 
and the protection or advancement of persons , or categories of persons , disadvantaged by unfair discrimination . 
and members of any commission provided for in the Constitution , including the broadcasting authority referred to in section 192 . 
and prescribed by the joint rules and orders of Parliament . 
Schedule 1 
binds the Republic without approval by the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces , but must be tabled in the Assembly and the Council within a reasonable time . 
Each edging is one fifteenth as wide as the flag . 
Short title and commencement 
The person presiding at a meeting to which this Schedule applies must call for the nomination of candidates at the meeting . 
Any international agreement becomes law in the Republic when it is enacted into law by national legislation ; 
If only two candidates are nominated , or if only two candidates remain after an elimination procedure has been applied , and those two candidates receive the same number of votes , 
The Chief Justice must make rules prescribing- 
I , A.B . , 
the form on which nominations must be submitted ; 
The right of the South African people as a whole to self-determination , as manifested in this Constitution , does not preclude , within the framework of this right , 
Formal requirements 
Sections 213 , 214 , 215 , 216 , 218 , 226 , 227 , 228 , 229 and 230 come into effect on 1 January 1998 , 
I , A.B . , 
and I solemnly promise to perform my functions as a member of the National Assembly/ permanent delegate to the National Council of Provinces/member of the legislature of the province of C.D . 
Oath or solemn affirmation of Deputy President 
Application of international law 
All constitutional obligations must be performed diligently and without delay . 
If more the one candidate is nominated- 
must swear or affirm before the Deputy Chief Justice , or failing that judge , the next most senior available judge of the Constitutional Court . 
Unless the context otherwise indicates , a reference in a provision of the Constitution to a time when the Constitution took effect must be construed as a reference to the time when that provision took effect . 
Announcement of names of candidates 
Council of Provinces and members of provincial legislatures , before the Chief Justice or a judge designated by the Chief Justice , must swear or affirm as follows : 
to the best of my ability . 
To enhance multiparty democracy , national legislation must provide for the funding of political parties participating in national and provincial legislatures on an equitable and proportional basis . 
Schedule 6 applies to the transition to the new constitutional order established by this Constitution , and any matter incidental to that transition . 
swear/solemnly affirm that I will be faithful to the Republic of South Africa and will obey , respect and uphold the Constitution and all other law of the Republic ; 
exercising a power or performing a function in terms of the Constitution or a provincial constitution ; 
The President may set different dates before the date mentioned in subsection in respect of different provisions of the Constitution . 
not to divulge directly or indirectly any secret matter entrusted to me ; 
The centre lines of the band start in the top and bottom corners next to the flag post , converge in the centre of the flag , and continue horizontally to the middle of the free edge . 
and devote myself to the wellbeing of the Republic and all of its people . 
A nomination must be made on the form prescribed by the rules mentioned in item 9 . 
The Premier or Acting Premier of a province , and each member of the Executive Council of a province , before the Chief Justice or a judge designated by the Chief Justice , must swear/affirm as follows : 
each member present , or if it is a meeting of the National Council of Provinces each province represented , at the meeting may cast one vote ; 
In the event of an inconsistency between different texts of the Constitution , the English text prevails . 
The form on which a nomination is made must be signed- 
The negotiating and signing of all international agreements is the responsibility of the national executive . 
and devote myself to the wellbeing of the Republic and all of its people 
If only one candidate is nominated , the person presiding must declare that candidate elected . 
protect and promote the rights of all South Africans ; 
and repeated as often as may be necessary to determine which candidate is to be eliminated . 
The triangle next to the flag post is black . 
Self-determination 
When applying subitem , if two or more candidates each have the lowest number of votes , a separate vote must be taken on those candidates , 
a vote must be taken at the meeting by secret ballot ; 
or exercising a public power or performing a public function in terms of any legislation , but does not include a court or a judicial officer ; 
swear/ solemnly affirm that I will be faithful to the Republic of South 
Other Matters 
but this does not preclude the enactment in terms of this Constitution of legislation envisaged in any of these provisions before that date . 
A person appointed to the office of Chief Justice who is not already a judge at the time of that appointment 
and I undertake to hold my office as Premier/Acting Premier/ member of the Executive Council of the province of C.D . 
Each Minister and Deputy Minister , before the Chief Justice or another judge designated by the Chief Justice , must swear/affirm as follows 
The Deputy President , before the Chief Justice or another judge designated by the Chief Justice , must swear/affirm as follows : 
Oath or solemn affirmation of President and Acting President 
When interpreting any legislation , every court must prefer any reasonable interpretation of the legislation that is consistent with international law over any alternative interpretation that is inconsistent with international law . 
The procedure see out in this Schedule applies whenever- 
do justice to all ; 
If a further meeting is held in terms of subitem , the procedure prescribed in this Schedule must be applied at that meeting as if it were the first meeting for the election in question . 
or any other functionary or institution- 
I , A.B . , 
and the manner in which voting is to be conducted . 
national legislation includes- 
by two members of the National Assembly , if the President or the Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the Assembly is to be elected ; 
not to divulge directly or indirectly any secret matter entrusted to me ; 
NATIONAL FLAG The national flag is rectangular ; 
Elimination procedure 
Persons filling a vacancy in the National Assembly , a permanent delegation to the National Council of Provinces or a provincial legislature 
An international agreement of a technical , administrative or executive nature , or an agreement which does not require either ratification or accession , entered into by the national executive , 
swear/solemnly affirm that , as a Judge of the Constitutional Court/Supreme Court of Appeal/High Court/ E.F . 
At a meeting to which this Schedule applies , the person presiding must announce the names of the persons who have been nominated as candidates , but may not permit any debate . 
This procedure must be repeated until a candidate receives a majority of the votes . 
In the Constitution , unless the context indicates otherwise- 
It has a green Y-shaped band that is one fifth as wide as the flag . 
subordinate legislation made in terms of a provincial Act ; 
Each judge or acting judge , before the Chief Justice or another judge designated by the Chief Justice , must swear or affirm as follows : 
- Election procedures for constitutional office-bearers 
and the person presiding must declare elected the candidate who receives a majority of the votes . 
promote all that will advance the Republic , and oppose all that may harm it ; 
recognition of the right of self-determination of any community sharing a common cultural and language heritage , within a territorial entity in the Republic or in any other way , determined by national legislation . 
and I solemnly and sincerely promise that I will always- 
and legislation that was in force when the Constitution took effect and that is administered by the national government ; 
may swear or affirm in terms of subitem before the presiding officer of the Assembly , Council or legislature , as the case may be . 
and comes into effect as soon as possible on a date set by the President by proclamation , which may not be a date later than 1 July 1997 . 
The President or Acting President , before the Chief Justice , or another judge designated by the Chief Justice , must swear/affirm as follows : 
swear/solemnly affirm that I will be faithful to the Republic of South Africa and will obey , observe , uphold and maintain the Constitution and all other law of the Republic ; 
In the presence of everyone assembled here , and in full realisation of the high calling I assume as President/Acting President of the Republic of South Africa , I , A.B . , 
swear/solemnly affirm that I will be faithful to the Republic of South Africa and will obey , respect and uphold the Constitution and all other law of the Republic ; 
An executive organ of state in any sphere of government may- 
discharge my duties with all my strength and talents to the best of my knowledge and ability and true to the dictates of my conscience ; 
If a different date is set for any particular provision of the Constitution in terms of subsection , any corresponding provision of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa , 1993 , 
and I solemnly and sincerely promise that I will always- 
Transitional arrangements 
provincial legislation includes- 
Agency and delegation 
This Act is called the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa , 1996 , 
Part A 
a provincial legislature meets to elect the Premier of the province or the Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the legislature . 
International agreements 
Charters of Rights 
do justice to all ; 
In the presence of everyone assembled here , and in full realisation of the high calling I assume as Deputy President of the Republic of South Africa , I , A.B . , 
subordinate legislation made in terms of an Act of Parliament ; 
International Law 
Funding for political parties 
Nominations 
and I undertake to hold my office as Minister/Deputy Minister with honour and dignity ; 
Oath or solemn affirmation of Premiers , Acting Premiers and members of provincial Executive Councils 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
A person who is nominated must indicate acceptance of the nomination by signing either the nomination form or any other form of written confirmation . 
Court , I will be faithful to the Republic of South Africa , will uphold and protect the Constitution and the human rights entrenched in it , 
the procedure for meetings to which this Schedule applies ; 
Members of the National Assembly , permanent delegates 
The green band is edged , above and below in white , and towards the flag post end , in gold . 
it is one and a half times longer than it is wide . 
It is black , gold , green , white , chilli red and blue . 
discharge my duties with all my strength and talents to the best of my knowledge and ability and true to the dictates of my conscience ; 
Judicial officers , and acting judicial officers , other than judges , must swear/affirm in terms of national legislation . 
CHAPTER 14 
the National Council of Provinces meets to elect its Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson ; 
Schedule 3 
OATHS AND SOLEMN AFFIRMATIONS 
Until that date any corresponding and incidental provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa , 1993 , remain in force . 
swear/solemnly affirm that I will be faithful to the Republic of South Africa and will obey , respect and uphold the Constitution and all other law of the Republic ; 
The laws mentioned in Schedule 7 are repealed , subject to section 243 and Schedule 6 . 
Application 
Customary international law is law in the Republic unless it is inconsistent with the Constitution or an Act of Parliament . 
The Republic is bound by international agreements which were binding on the Republic when this Constitution took effect . 
and to perform the functions of my office conscientiously and to the best of my ability . 
Repeal of laws 
Customary international law 
I , A.B . , 
the duties of any person presiding at a meeting , and of any person assisting the person presiding ; 
be a true and faithful counsellor ; 
to be a true and faithful counsellor ; 
An international agreement binds the Republic only after it has been approved by resolution in both the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces , unless it is an agreement referred to in subsection . 
promote all that will advance the Republic , and oppose all that may harm it ; 
with honour and dignity ; 
Africa , and will obey , observe , uphold and maintain the Constitution and all other law of the Republic ; 
and legislation that was in force when the Constitution took effect and that is administered by a provincial government . 
on behalf of two provincial delegations , if the Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson of the National Council of Provinces is to be elected ; 
These rules must be made known in the way that the Chief Justice determines . 
or by two members of the relevant provincial legislature , if the Premier of the province or the Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the legislature is to be elected . 
and to perform the functions of my office conscientiously and to the best of my ability . 
These bands are each one third as wide as the flag . 
The upper horizontal band is chilli red and the lower horizontal band is blue . 
In order to deepen the culture of democracy established by the Constitution , Parliament may adopt Charters of Rights consistent with the provisions of the Constitution . 
ELECTION PROCEDURES 
any department of state or administration in the national , provincial or local sphere of government ; 
, Oath or solemn affirmation of members of the National Assembly , permanent delegates to the National Council of Provinces and members of the provincial legislatures 
and will administer justice to all persons alike without fear , favour or prejudice , in accordance with the Constitution and the law . 
Oath or solemn affirmation of Ministers and Deputy Ministers 
the National Assembly meets to elect the President , or the Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the Assembly ; 
organ of state means- 
a further meeting must be held within seven days , at a time determined by the person presiding . 
Diligent performance of obligations 
but a self-executing provision of an agreement that has been approved by Parliament is law in the Republic unless it is inconsistent with the Constitution or an Act of Parliament . 
mentioned in the proclamation , is repealed with effect from the same date . 
If no candidate receives a majority of the votes , the candidate who receives the lowest number of votes must be eliminated and a further vote taken on the remaining candidates in accordance with item 6 . 
Single candidate 
delegate any power or function that is to be exercised or performed in terms of legislation to any other executive organ of state , 
or exercise any power or perform any function for any other executive organ of state on an agency or delegation basis . 
Old order legislation that continues in force in terms of subitem - 
The rules and orders of the National Assembly in force when the new Constitution took effect , continue in force , subject to any amendment or repeal . 
to Parliament , the National Assembly or the Senate , must be construed as a reference to Parliament , the National Assembly or the National Council of Provinces under the new Constitution ; 
must be proceeded with in terms of the new Constitution . 
must be construed as a reference to the President , the Deputy President , a Minister , a Deputy Minister or the Cabinet under the new Constitution , subject to item 9 of this Schedule ; 
must be construed as a reference to a provincial legislature , Premier , Executive Council or member of an Executive Council under the new Constitution , subject to item 12 of this Schedule ; 
to the President of the Senate , must be construed as a reference to the Chairperson of the National Council of Provinces ; 
Section 50 of the new Constitution is suspended until 30 April 1999 . 
Schedule 6 
Continuation of existing law 
Section 47 of the new Constitution is suspended until the second election of the National Assembly under the new Constitution . 
new Constitution means the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa , 1996 ; 
National Assembly 
does not have a wider application , territorially or otherwise , than it had before the previous Constitution took effect unless subsequently amended to have a wider application ; 
All law that was in force when the new Constitution took effect , continues in force , subject to- 
and holds office as a member or office-bearer in terms of the new Constitution . 
Parliament under the new Constitution , if the administration of that legislation has been allocated or assigned in terms of the previous Constitution or this Schedule to the national executive ; 
Any unfinished business before the Senate when the new Constitution takes effect must be referred to the National Council of Provinces , and the Council must proceed with that business in terms of the new Constitution . 
to a provincial legislature , Premier , Executive Council or member of an Executive Council of a province , 
old order legislation means legislation enacted before the previous Constitution took effect ; 
and consistency with the new Constitution . 
or to an official language or languages , must be construed as a reference to any of the official languages under the new Constitution . 
The National Assembly as constituted in terms of subitem must be regarded as having been elected under the new Constitution for a term that expires on 30 April 1999 . 
The National Assembly consists of 400 members for the duration of its term that expires on 30 April 1999 , subject to section 49 of the new Constitution . 
to the Republic of South Africa or a homeland , must be construed as a reference to the Republic of South Africa under the new Constitution ; 
to a Parliament , a House of a Parliament or a legislative assembly or body of the Republic or of a homeland , must be construed as a reference to- 
Elections of National Assembly 
Interpretation of existing legislation 
any amendment or repeal ; 
and continues to be administered by the authorities that administered it when the new Constitution took effect , subject to the new Constitution . 
National Council of Provinces 
Unless inconsistent with the context or clearly inappropriate , a reference in any remaining old order legislation- 
TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS 
Anyone who was a member or office-bearer of the National Assembly when the new Constitution took effect , becomes a member or office-bearer of the National Assembly under the new Constitution , 
Unfinished business before Parliament 
or the provincial legislature of a province , if the administration of that legislation has been allocated or assigned in terms of the previous Constitution or this Schedule to a provincial executive ; 
or to a State President , Chief Minister , Administrator or other chief executive , Cabinet , Ministers Council or executive council of the Republic or of a homeland , must be construed as a reference to- 
homeland means a part of the Republic which , before the previous Constitution took effect , was dealt with in South African legislation as an independent or a selfgoverning territory ; 
or the Premier of a province under the new Constitution , if the administration of that legislation has been allocated or assigned in terms of the previous Constitution or this Schedule to a provincial executive . 
Unless inconsistent with the context or clearly inappropriate , a reference in any legislation that existed when the new Constitution took effect- 
the President under the new Constitution , if the administration of that legislation has been allocated or assigned in terms of the previous Constitution or this Schedule to the national executive ; 
after a motion of no confidence in the President in terms of section 102 of the new Constitution . 
Any unfinished business before the National Assembly 
Definitions 
No election of the National Assembly may be held before 30 April 1999 unless the Assembly is dissolved in terms of section 50 
previous Constitution means the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa , 1993 . 
to the President , an Executive Deputy President , a Minister , a Deputy Minister or the Cabinet , 
Municipal abattoirs 
Licensing and control of undertakings that sell food to the public 
and to the filling of vacancies in the Assembly , and the supplementation , review and use of party lists for the filling of vacancies , until the second election of the Assembly under the new Constitution . 
Control of public nuisances 
Markets 
Traffic and parking 
Control of undertakings that sell liquor to the public 
For the period which ends immediately before the first sitting of a provincial legislature held after its first election under the new Constitution- 
to the first election of the National Assembly under the new Constitution ; 
Facilities for the accommodation , care and burial of animals 
Beaches and amusement facilities 
Billboards and the display of advertisements in public places Cemeteries , funeral parlours and crematoria 
and the allocation of permanent delegates and special delegates to the parties represented in the provincial legislature , is as follows : 
Municipal roads 
Refuse removal , refuse dumps and solid waste disposal 
must be the same as the proportion in which the provinces 10 senators were nominated in terms of section 48 of the previous Constitution ; 
Noise pollution 
Cleansing 
Local sport facilities 
Local amenities 
Pounds 
Public places 
Fencing and fences 
Street lighting 
PART B 
to the loss of membership of the Assembly in circumstances other than those provided for in section 47 of the new Constitution ; 
Despite the repeal of the previous Constitution , Schedule 2 to that Constitution , as amended by Annexure A to this Schedule , applies- 
the proportion of party representation in the provinces delegation to the National Council of Provinces 
Municipal parks and recreation 
The following local government matters to the extent set out for provinces in section 155 and : 
Street trading 
must be applied in respect of the business of the National Council to the extent that they can be applied , subject to any amendment or repeal . 
and may nominate other persons as permanent delegates only if none or an insufficient number of its former senators are available . 
The salary , allowances and benefits of a former senator appointed as a permanent delegate or as a member of a provincial legislature may not be reduced by reason only of that appointment . 
A provincial legislature as constituted in terms of subitem must be regarded as having been elected under the new Constitution for a term that expires on 30 April 1999 . 
from continuing as a Minister referred to in section 91 of the new Constitution , as that section reads in Annexure B . 
a provincial legislature consists of the number of members determined for that legislature under the previous Constitution plus the number of former senators who became members of the legislature in terms of item 8 of this Schedule . 
For the duration of its term that expires on 30 April 1999 , and subject to section 108 , 
Until 30 April 1999 , sections 84 , 89 , 90 , 91 , 93 and 96 of the new Constitution must be regarded to read as set out in Annexure B to this Schedule . 
Provincial legislatures 
is entitled to become a full voting member of the legislature of the province from which that person was nominated as a senator in terms of section 48 of the previous Constitution . 
A party represented in a provincial legislature- 
must nominate its permanent delegates from among the persons who were senators when the new Constitution took effect and are available to serve as permanent delegates ; 
A former senator who is not appointed as a permanent delegate to the National 
Subitem does not prevent a Minister who was a senator when the new Constitution took effect , 
Section 62 of the new Constitution does not apply to the nomination and appointment of former senators as permanent delegates in terms of this item . 
A provincial legislature must appoint its permanent delegates in accordance with the nominations of the parties . 
Former senators 
If a former senator elects not to become a member of a provincial legislature that person is regarded as having resigned as a senator the day before the new Constitution took effect . 
The rules and orders of a provincial legislature in force when the new Constitution took effect , continue in force , subject to any amendment or repeal . 
Subitems and apply only to the first appointment of permanent delegates to the National Council of Provinces . 
PERMANENT DELEGATES 
and holds office as a member or office-bearer in terms of the new Constitution and any provincial constitution that may be enacted . 
Anyone who was a member or office-bearer of a provinces legislature when the new Constitution took effect , becomes a member or office-bearer of the legislature for that province under the new Constitution , 
The rules and orders of the Senate in force when the new Constitution took effect , 
Anyone who was the President , an Executive Deputy President , a Minister or a Deputy Minister under the previous Constitution when the new Constitution took effect , 
continues in and holds that office in terms of the new Constitution , but subject to subitem . 
Elections of provincial legislatures 
to or from the national or a provincial executive or any department of state , administration , security service or other institution . 
Constitution , including any amendment , adaptation or repeal and re-enactment of any legislation and any other action taken under that section , is regarded as having been done under this item . 
to the first election of a provincial legislature under the new Constitution ; 
sections 132 and 136 of the new Constitution must be regarded to read as set out in Annexure C to this Schedule . 
and to the filling of vacancies in a legislature , and the supplementation , review and use of party lists far the filling of vacancies , until the second election of the legislature under the new Constitution . 
remains competent to administer that legislation until it is assigned to an authority within a provincial executive in terms of item 14 of this Schedule . 
A provincial constitution passed before the new Constitution took effect must comply with section 143 of the new Constitution . 
Provincial constitutions 
Every court , including courts of traditional leaders , existing when the new 
To the extent that it is necessary for an assignment of legislation under subitem to be effectively carried out , the President , by proclamation , may- 
If both the National Assembly and the National Council by resolution disapprove the proclamation or any provision of it , the proclamation or provision lapses , but without affecting- 
any amendment or repeal of that legislation ; 
Existing legislation outside Parliaments legislative power 
to the loss of membership of a legislature in circumstances other than those provided for in section 106 of the new Constitution ; 
continues in and holds that office in terms of the new Constitution and any provincial constitution that may be enacted , but subject to subitem . 
Legislation with regard to a matter within a functional area listed in Schedule or 5 to the new Constitution and which , 
An authority within the national executive that administers any legislation falling outside Parliaments legislative power when the new Constitution takes effect , 
Provincial executives 
or a right or privilege acquired or an obligation or liability incurred before it lapsed . 
amend or adapt the legislation to regulate its interpretation or application ; 
where the assignment does not apply to the whole of any piece of legislation , repeal and re-enact , 
when the new Constitution took effect , was administered by an authority within the national executive , may be assigned by the President , by proclamation , 
Anyone who was the Premier or a member of the Executive Council of a province when the new Constitution took effect , 
Section 106 of the new Constitution is suspended in respect of a provincial legislature until the second election of the legislature under the new Constitution . 
Constitution , as amended by Annexure A to this Schedule , applies- 
A copy of each proclamation issued in terms of subitem or must be submitted to the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces within 10 days of the publication of the proclamation . 
Until the Premier elected after the first election of a provinces legislature under the new Constitution assumes office , or the province enacts its constitution , whichever occurs first , 
and anyone holding office as a judicial officer continues to hold office in terms of the legislation applicable to that office , subject to- 
or regulate any other matter necessary as a result of the assignment , including the transfer or secondment of staff , or the transfer of assets , liabilities , rights and obligations , 
Subitem lapses two years after the new Constitution took effect . 
with or without any amendments or adaptations 
Constitution took effect , continues to function and to exercise jurisdiction in terms of the legislation applicable to it , 
to an authority within a provincial executive designated by the Executive Council of the province . 
Despite the repeal of the previous Constitution , Schedule 2 to that 
the validity of anything done in terms of the proclamation or provision before it lapsed ; 
When legislation is assigned under subitem , any reference in the legislation to an authority administering it , must be construed as a reference to the authority to which it has been assigned . 
Assignment of legislation to provinces 
Any assignment of legislation under section 235 of the previous 
Until the legislation envisaged in sections 32 and 33 of the new Constitution is enacted- 
a member of the board of the Reserve Bank or the Pan South African Language Board , the Public Protector or the Auditor-General when the new Constitution takes effect , 
any of its organs in any sphere of government in so far as that information is required for the exercise or protection of any of their rights . 
Oaths and affirmations 
National unity and reconciliation 
continues to hold office in terms of the legislation applicable to that office , subject to- 
continues to hold office in terms of the legislation applicable to that office , subject to- 
and consistency with the new Constitution . 
and a traditional leader of a community observing a system of indigenous law and residing on land within the area of a transitional local council , 
lawful administrative action where any of their rights or interests is affected or threatened ; 
as may be amended from time to time by national legislation consistent with the new Constitution , 
the Commission on Gender Equality ; 
the South African Reserve Bank ; 
any further amendment or any repeal of those sections by an Act of Parliament passed in terms of section 75 of the new Constitution ; 
and the legislation applicable to it as if that Chapter had not been repealed , until the Commission and the provincial service commissions are abolished 
be furnished with reasons in writing for administrative action which affects any of their rights or interests unless the reasons for that action have been made public ; 
This subitem does not affect the appointment of the National Director of Public Prosecutions in terms of section 179 . 
In this section constitutional institution means- 
and administrative action which is justifiable in relation to the reasons given for it where any of their rights is affected or threatened . 
A person who continues in office in terms of this Schedule and who has taken the oath of office or has made a solemn affirmation under the previous Constitution , 
Section 108 of the previous Constitution continues in force until the Act of 
One half of the seats from regional lists submitted by the respective parties , with a fixed number of seats reserved for each region as determined by the Commission for the next election of the Assembly , 
lapses if the conviction is set aside on appeal , or the sentence is reduced on appeal to a sentence that does not disqualify that person ; 
Cases pending before courts 
Section 198 of the new Constitution may not be enforced until the legislation envisaged in that section has been enacted . 
Local government 
The amendment of item 7 by replacing paragraph with the following paragraph : 
remain in force in respect of a Municipal Council until a Municipal Council replacing that Council has been declared elected as a result of the first general election of Municipal Councils 
and each such list shall denote such names in such fixed order of preference as the party may determine . 
Sections 82 and 124 of the new Constitution do not affect the safekeeping of Acts of Parliament or provincial Acts passed before the new Constitution took effect . 
taking into account available scientifically based data in respect of voters , and representations by interested parties . 
Until the Act of Parliament referred to in section 65 of the new Constitution is enacted 
the South African Human Rights Commission ; 
The disqualification of a person in terms of subitem - 
Other constitutional institutions 
any amendment or repeal ; 
Registration of immovable property owned by the state 
or the Pan South African Language Board . 
AMENDMENTS TO SCHEDULE 2 TO THE PREVIOUS CONSTITUTION 
Public administration and security services 
and section 33 and must be regarded to read as follows : 
Parties registered in terms of national legislation and contesting an election of the National Assembly , shall nominate candidates for such election on lists of candidates prepared in accordance with this Schedule and national legislation . 
The replacement of item 1 with the following item : 
The amendment of item 5 by replacing the words preceding paragraph with the following words : 
The seats in the National Assembly as determined in terms of section 46 of the new Constitution , shall be filled as follows : 
a registrar of deeds must make such entries or endorsements in or on any relevant register , title deed or other document to register that immovable property in the name of that government . 
The seats referred to in item 2 shall be allocated per region to the parties contesting an election , as follows: . 
by an Act of Parliament passed in terms of section 75 of the new Constitution . 
of the previous Constitution cease to be members of the Commission when the members referred to in section 178 of the new Constitution are appointed . 
the Judicial Service Commission ; 
The Public Service Commission and the provincial service commissions referred to in Chapter 13 of the previous Constitution continue to function in terms of that Chapter 
and consistency with the new Constitution . 
the Financial and Fiscal Commission ; 
is ex officio entitled to be a member of that council until a Municipal Council replacing that council has been declared elected as a result of the first general election of Municipal Councils 
Until the legislation envisaged in section 229 of the new Constitution is enacted , a municipality remains competent to impose any tax , levy or duty which it was authorised to impose when the Constitution took effect . 
by replacing the words preceding paragraph with the following words : 
An attorney-general holding office when the new Constitution takes effect , continues to function in terms of the legislation applicable to that office , subject to subitem . 
section 32 must be regarded to read as follows 
any amendment or repeal of that legislation ; 
but the absence of this legislation during this period does not prevent the implementation of the policy referred to in section 217 . 
is not eligible to be a member of the National Assembly or a provincial legislature . 
Sections 184A and 184B , and of the previous Constitution continue in force until repealed by an Act of Parliament passed in terms of section 75 of the new Constitution . 
Safekeeping of Acts of Parliament and provincial Acts 
A constitutional institution established in terms of the previous Constitution continues to function in terms of the legislation applicable to it , and anyone holding office as a commission member , 
and consistency with the new Constitution 
each provincial legislature may determine its own procedure in terms of which authority is conferred on its delegation to cast votes on its behalf in the National Council of Provinces . 
and ends five years after the sentence has been completed . 
Every person has the right to- 
the amendments to those sections as set out in Annexure D ; 
is not obliged to repeat the oath of office or solemn affirmation under the new Constitution . 
Sections 199 , 200 , and to and 201 to 206 of the previous Constitution continue in force until repealed by an Act of Parliament passed in terms of section 75 of the new Constitution . 
The repeal of the previous Constitution does not affect any proclamation issued under section 237 of the previous Constitution , and any such proclamation continues in force , subject to- 
Where the new Constitution requires the enactment of national or provincial legislation , that legislation must be enacted by the relevant authority within a reasonable period of the date the new Constitution took effect . 
the provisions of the Local Government Transition Act , 1993 , 
Sections 82 , 215 , 218 , 219 , 224 to 228 , 236 , and , 237 and and 239 
The replacement of item 2 with the following item : 
Anyone who , when the new Constitution took effect , was serving a sentence in the Republic of more than 12 months imprisonment without the option of a fine , 
National legislation envisaged in sections 9 , 32 and 33 of the new 
ANNEXURE A 
National Unity and Reconciliation are deemed to be part of the new Constitution for the purposes of the Promotion of National Unity and Reconciliation Act , 1995 , 
Notwithstanding the other provisions of the new Constitution and despite the repeal of the previous Constitution , all the provisions relating to amnesty contained in the previous Constitution under the heading 
A quota of votes per seat shall be determined by dividing the total number of votes cast nationally by the number of seats in the National Assembly , 
and consistency with the new Constitution . 
No duty , fee or other charge is payable in respect of a registration in terms of subitem . 
Sections 32 and 33 of the new Constitution lapse if the legislation envisaged in those sections , respectively , is not enacted within three years of the date the new Constitution took effect . 
The amendment of item 6 - 
the Auditor-General ; 
The Volkstaat Council established in terms of the previous Constitution continues to function in terms of the legislation applicable to it , 
Section 16 and of the Local Government Transition Act , 1993 , may not be repealed before 30 April 2000 . 
Constitution must be enacted within three years of the date on which the new Constitution took effect . 
and who has been identified as set out in section 182 of the previous Constitution , 
The replacement of item 3 with the following item : 
as amended , including for the purposes of its validity . 
Parliament envisaged in section 179 of the new Constitution takes effect . 
Every person has the right of access to all information held by the state or 
plus one , and the result plus one , disregarding fractions , shall be the quota of votes per seat . 
and by replacing paragraph with the following paragraph : 
procedurally fair administrative action where any of their rights or legitimate expectations is affected or threatened ; 
Section 245 of the previous Constitution continues in force until the application of that section lapses . 
The lists of candidates submitted by a party , shall in total contain the names of not more than a number of candidates equal to the number of seats in the National Assembly , 
Section 199 of the new Constitution may not be enforced before the expiry of three months after the legislation envisaged in that section has been enacted . 
National legislation envisaged in section 217 of the new Constitution must be enacted within three years of the date on which the new Constitution took effect , 
The seats referred to in item 2 shall be allocated to the parties contesting an election , as follows : ; 
All proceedings which were pending before a court when the new Constitution took effect , must be disposed of as if the new Constitution had not been enacted , unless the interests of justice require otherwise . 
and of the previous Constitution continue in force as if the previous Constitution had not been repealed , subject to- 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 151 , 155 , 156 and 157 of the new 
and anyone holding office as a member of the Council when the new Constitution takes effect , 
Prosecuting authority 
transitional rural council or transitional representative council , referred to in the Local Government Transition Act , 1993 , 
Additional disqualification for legislatures 
On the production of a certificate by a competent authority that immovable property owned by the state is vested in a particular government in terms of section 239 of the previous Constitution , 
any amendment or repeal of that legislation ; 
The other half of the seats from national lists submitted by the respective parties , or from regional lists where national lists were not submitted . 
Enactment of legislation required by new Constitution 
The members of the Judicial Service Commission referred to in section 105 
ANNEXURE B GOVERNMENT OF NATIONAL UNITY : 
the party which submitted such lists shall , within two days after the said declaration , indicate to the Commission from which list such candidate will be designated 
An Act of Parliament may , within a reasonable period after the new Constitution took effect , be passed in accordance with section 76 of the new Constitution to amend this item and item 23 
and before pardoning or reprieving offenders . 
Designation of representatives 
The deletion of item 26 . 
An amended quota of votes per seat shall be determined by dividing the total number of votes cast nationally , 
Provided that any such supplementation shall be made at the end of the list . 
or any party to subdivide into more than one party . 
in all matters relating to the management of the Cabinet and the performance of Cabinet business ; 
before making any appointment under the Constitution or any legislation , including the appointment of ambassadors or other diplomatic representatives ; 
A person loses membership of a legislature to which this Schedule applies if that person ceases to be a member of the party which nominated that person as a member of the legislature . 
Paragraph of section 90 of the new Constitution is deemed to read as follows . 
Section 89 of the new Constitution is deemed to contain the following additional subsection : 
Section 84 of the new Constitution is deemed to contain the following additional subsection : 
Lists of candidates of a party referred to in item 16 may be supplemented on one occasion only at any time during the first 12 months following the date on which the designation of representatives 
or in which legislature the candidate will serve , as the case may be , in which event the candidates name shall be deleted from the other lists . 
The number of seats in each provincial legislature shall be as determined in terms of section 105 of the new Constitution . 
The deletion of item 24 . 
The Commission shall forthwith publish the list of names of representatives in the legislature or legislatures . 
The amendment of item 18 by replacing paragraph with the following paragraph : 
the seats in question shall be allocated to the remaining parties mutatis mutandis as if such seats were forfeited seats in terms of item 7 or 14 , as the case may be . 
After the counting of votes has been concluded , the number of representatives of each party has been determined 
Despite subitem any existing political party may at any time change its name . 
The insertion of the following item after item 23 : 
an Executive Deputy President designated by the President . 
The replacement of item 16 with the following item : 
Parties registered in terms of national legislation and contesting an election of a provincial legislature , shall nominate candidates for election to such provincial legislature on provincial lists prepared in accordance with this Schedule and national legislation . 
NATIONAL SPHERE 
and who is the next qualified and available person on the list . 
Vacancies 
in terms of item 16 has been concluded , in order to fill casual vacancies : 
Subsections and apply also to an Executive Deputy President . 
whose name appears on the list of candidates from which the vacating member was originally nominated ; 
and the election result has been declared in terms of section 190 of the new Constitution , 
The replacement of item 10 with the following item : 
and such candidate is due for designation as a representative in more than one case , 
The amendment of item 25 - 
In the event of a vacancy in a legislature to which this Schedule applies , the party which nominated the vacating member shall fill the vacancy by nominating a person- 
by replacing the definition of Commission with the following definition : 
and by inserting the following definition after the definition of national list : 
in the development and execution of the policies of the national government ; 
An Act of Parliament referred to in subitem may also provide for- 
Following the designation in terms of subitem , if a candidates name appears on more than one list for the National Assembly or on lists for both the National Assembly and a provincial legislature , 
to provide for the manner in which it will be possible for a member of a legislature who ceases to be a member of the party which nominated that member , to retain membership of such legislature . 
any existing party to merge with another party ; 
in the assignment of functions to the Executive Deputy Presidents ; 
A nomination to fill a vacancy shall be submitted to the Speaker in writing . 
a representative is appointed as a permanent delegate to the National 
plus one , minus the number of seats finally allocated to the said party in terms of paragraph . 
the Commission shall , within two days after such declaration , designate from each list of candidates , published in terms of national legislation , the representatives of each party in the legislature . 
Additional ground for loss of membership of legislatures 
The replacement of item 11 with the following item : 
before calling a referendum ; 
If a party represented in a legislature dissolves or ceases to exist and the members in question vacate their seats in consequence of item 23A , 
before appointing commissions of inquiry ; 
minus the number of votes cast nationally in favour of the party referred to in paragraph , by the number of seats in the Assembly , 
Section 91 of the new Constitution is deemed to read as follows : 
new Constitution means the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa , 1996 . 
The replacement of item 19 with the following item : 
The replacement of item 23 with the following item : 
Commission means the Electoral Commission referred to in section 190 of the new Constitution ; 
the Premier may require the member concerned to bring the administration of the portfolio into conformity with that policy . 
performed governmental functions , continues to function in terms of the legislation applicable to it until it is abolished or incorporated or integrated into any appropriate institution or is rationalised or consolidated with any other institution . ; 
appoint in respect of that portfolio a person who is not a member of the National Assembly , as the Minister responsible for that portfolio ; 
or if it becomes necessary for the purposes of the Constitution or in the interest of good government ; 
if it becomes necessary for the purposes of the Constitution or in the interest of good government , vary any determination under paragraph , 
but before the adoption of the new constitutional text as envisaged in section 73 of that Constitution , if the political organisation under whose authority and control it stands 
and all members of the Executive Council are correspondingly accountable collectively for the performance of the functions of the provincial government and for its policies . 
Meetings of an Executive Council must be presided over by the Premier of the province . 
A party holding at least 10 per cent of the seats in a provincial legislature and which has decided to participate in the government of national unity , 
A party holding at least 20 seats in the National Assembly and which has decided to participate in the government of national unity , 
The provisions of section 91 to apply , with the necessary changes , in respect of Deputy Ministers , 
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND SECURITY SERVICES : 
by replacing in subsection the words preceding paragraph with the following words : 
and if the member is not a member of the Premiers party or is not the leader of a participating party , also after consultation with the leader of that members party . 
Provided that the Executive Deputy Presidents preside over meetings of the Cabinet in turn unless the exigencies of government and the spirit embodied in the concept of a government of national unity otherwise demand . 
ANNEXURE C 
and all members of the Cabinet are correspondingly accountable collectively for the performance of the functions of the national government and for its policies . 
Each party holding at least 80 seats in the National Assembly is entitled to designate an Executive Deputy President from among the members of the Assembly . 
If a person is appointed as the Deputy Minister of any portfolio entrusted to a Minister- 
subject to subsection ; 
or after consultation with the Executive Deputy Presidents and the leaders of the participating parties , 
PROVINCIAL SPHERE 
for reappointment to other portfolios allocated to their respective parties in terms of the varied determination . 
Ministers are accountable individually to the President and to the National Assembly for the administration of their portfolios , 
or until the person elected President after any election of the National Assembly held before 30 April 1999 , assumes office . 
relative to the number of seats held by the other participating parties . 
The amendment of section 239 of the previous Constitution by replacing subsection with the following subsection : 
The President may , after consultation with the Executive Deputy Presidents and the leaders of the parties participating in the Cabinet , establish deputy ministerial posts . 
and an effective administration for each province to deal with matters within the jurisdiction of each provincial government . ; 
The amendment of section 219 of the previous Constitution by replacing in subsection the words preceding paragraph with the following words : 
acting in consultation with the Executive Deputy Presidents and the leaders of the participating parties , deems the appointment of such a Minister expedient . 
Ministers must administer their portfolios in accordance with the policy determined by the Cabinet . 
The rationalisation of all institutions referred to in section 236 , excluding military forces referred to in section 224 , 
On being designated , an Executive Deputy President may elect to remain or cease to be a member of the Assembly . 
The President after consultation with the Executive Deputy Presidents and the leaders of the participating parties must- 
Provided that this subsection shall also apply to members of any armed force which submitted its personnel list after the commencement of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa , 1993 , 
The amendment of section 224 of the previous Constitution by replacing the proviso to subsection with the following proviso : 
the establishment and maintenance of a national public order policing unit to be deployed in support of and at the request of the Provincial Commissioner . 
If a member of an Executive Council fails to administer the portfolio in accordance with the policy of the Council , 
If any determination of portfolio allocations is varied under subsection , the affected Ministers must vacate their portfolios but are eligible , 
determine the specific portfolios to be allocated to the respective participating parties in accordance with the number of portfolios allocated to them in terms of subsection ; 
fill , when necessary , subject to paragraph , 
An Executive Council must function in a manner which gives consideration to the consensus-seeking spirit embodied in the concept of a government of national unity , as well as the need for effective government . 
of the National Assembly and the provincial legislatures under the said Constitution . 
the exercise of a power referred to in paragraph , or of that subsection , the Presidents decision prevails ; 
in proportion to the number of seats held by it in the National Assembly relative to the number of seats held by the other participating parties . 
in respect of any person referred to in subsection or any class of such persons . 
if it is a Minister referred to in section 91 , after consultation with the Minister and , if the Minister is not a member of the Presidents party 
where applicable , for reappointment to other portfolios allocated to their respective parties in terms of the varied determination . 
or with which it is associated and whose objectives it promotes did participate in the Transitional Executive Council or did take part in the first election 
if the Premier is requested to do so by the leader of the party of which the Executive Council member in question is a member ; 
and the exercise of a power referred to in paragraph or of that subsection affecting a person who is a member of the Presidents party , the Presidents decision prevails . 
the surplus competes with other similar surpluses accruing to another party or parties , and any portfolio or portfolios which remain unallocated must be allocated to the party or parties concerned in sequence of the highest surplus . 
If any determination of portfolio allocations is varied under subsection , the affected members must vacate their portfolios but are eligible , where applicable , 
Subject to and in accordance with any applicable law , the assets , rights , duties and liabilities of all forces referred to in section 224 
determine a specific portfolio for a Minister referred to in subsection should it become necessary pursuant to a decision of the President under that subsection ; 
The amendment of section 237 of the previous Constitution- 
Cabinet The Cabinet consists of the President , the Executive Deputy Presidents and- 
if the President is requested to do so by the leader of the party of which the Minister in question is a member ; 
Meetings of the Cabinet must be presided over by the President , or , if the President so instructs , by an Executive Deputy President : 
by replacing paragraph of subsection with the following paragraph : 
Appointment of Deputy Ministers 
in consultation with the Executive Deputy Presidents and the leaders of the participating parties , must- 
institutions referred to in section 236 , excluding military forces , shall rest with the national government , which shall exercise such responsibility in cooperation with the provincial governments . 
terminate any appointment under paragraph - 
Subsection must be implemented in the spirit embodied in the concept of a government of national unity , and the Premier and the other functionaries concerned 
A vacancy in the office of an Executive Deputy President may be filled by the party which designated that Deputy President . 
ANNEXURE D 
and the exercise of a power referred to in paragraph or of that subsection affecting a person who is a member of the Premiers party , the Premiers decision prevails . 
Section 136 of the new Constitution is deemed to contain the following additional subsections : 
The Cabinet must function in a manner which gives consideration to the consensus-seeking spirit embodied in the concept of a government of national unity as well as the need for effective government . 
must in the implementation of that subsection seek to achieve consensus at all times : Provided that if consensus cannot be achieved on- 
until 30 April 1999 unless replaced or recalled by the party entitled to make the designation in terms of subsections and ; 
Subject to section 218 , a Provincial Commissioner shall be responsible for- 
Whenever a Deputy Minister is absent or for any reason unable to exercise or perform any of the powers or functions of office , the President may appoint any other Deputy Minister 
and the party holding the second largest number of seats are each entitled to designate one Executive Deputy President from among the members of the Assembly . 
and fill , if necessary , a vacancy in respect of that portfolio ; 
Where the application of the above formula yields a surplus not absorbed by the number of portfolios allocated to a party , 
or fill , when necessary , subject to paragraph , a vacancy in the office of Minister . 
by replacing subsection with the following subsection : 
The Executive Council of a province consists of the Premier and not more than 10 members appointed by the Premier in accordance with this section . 
appoint in respect of each such portfolio a member of the provincial legislature who is a member of the party to which that portfolio was allocated under paragraph , 
and the National Assembly , must be read as a reference to the provincial legislature . 
by replacing subsection with the following subsection : 
and by replacing paragraph of subsection with the following paragraph : 
Section 132 of the new Constitution is deemed to read as follows : 
If the Minister concerned fails to comply with a requirement of the President under subsection , the President may remove the Minister from office- 
The amendment of section 218 of the previous Constitution- 
a vacancy in the office of a member of the Executive Council . 
and by replacing subparagraph of subsection with the following subparagraph : 
is entitled to be allocated one or more of the Executive Council portfolios in proportion to the number of seats held by it in the legislature 
or the award of a term or condition of service or other benefit , which occurred between 27 April 1993 and 30 September 1994 
shall after the commencement of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa , 1996 , continue , with a view to establishing- 
Cabinet portfolios must be allocated to the respective participating parties in accordance with the following formula : 
if it becomes necessary for the purposes of the Constitution or in the interest of good government , vary any determination under paragraph , subject to subsection ; 
appoint in respect of each such portfolio a member of the National Assembly who is a member of the party to which that portfolio was allocated under paragraph , as the Minister responsible for that portfolio ; 
An Executive Deputy President may exercise the powers and must perform the functions vested in the office of Executive Deputy President by the Constitution or assigned to that office by the President . 
Section 93 of the new Constitution is deemed to read as follows : 
The National Defence Force shall exercise its powers and perform its functions solely in the national interest in terms of Chapter 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa , 1996 . 
Members of Executive Councils are accountable individually to the Premier and to the provincial legislature for the administration of their portfolios , 
The number of portfolios to be allocated to a participating party is determined by dividing the total number of seats held by that party in the National Assembly by the quota referred to in paragraph . 
that Deputy Minister must exercise and perform on behalf of the relevant Minister any of the powers and functions assigned to that Minister 
The commission may reverse or alter a contract , appointment , promotion or award if not proper or justifiable in the circumstances of the case . ; 
An Executive Deputy President holds office- 
in terms of any legislation or otherwise which may , subject to the directions of the President , be assigned to that Deputy Minister by that Minister ; 
AMENDMENTS TO SECTIONS OF THE PREVIOUS CONSTITUTION 
must terminate any appointment under paragraph if it becomes necessary for the purposes of the Constitution or in the interest of good government . 
by replacing paragraph of subsection with the following paragraph : 
by replacing paragraph of subsection with the following paragraph : 
the investigation and prevention of organised crime or crime which requires national investigation and prevention or specialised skills ; 
If the member concerned fails to comply with a requirement of the Premier under subsection , the Premier may remove the member from office after consultation with the member , 
If no party or only one party holds 80 or more seats in the Assembly , the party holding the largest number of seats 
determine the specific portfolios to be allocated to the respective participating parties in accordance with the number of portfolios allocated to them in terms of subsection ; 
The result , subject to paragraph , indicates the number of portfolios to be allocated to that party . 
the exercise of a power referred to in paragraph , or of that subsection affecting a person who is not a member of the Premiers party , 
If a Minister fails to administer the portfolio in accordance with the policy of the Cabinet , the President may require the Minister concerned to bring the administration of the portfolio into conformity with that policy . 
Executive Councils 
or is not the leader of a participating party , also after consultation with the leader of that Ministers party ; 
as the member of the Executive Council responsible for that portfolio ; 
the exercise of a power referred to in paragraph , or of that subsection , the Premiers decision prevails ; 
the decision of the leader of the party of which that person is a member prevails ; 
The result , disregarding third and subsequent decimals , if any , is the quota of seats per portfolio . 
A quota of seats per portfolio must be determined by dividing the total number of seats in the National Assembly 
The Premier of a province after consultation with the leaders of the participating parties must- 
and the President and the other functionaries concerned must in the implementation of that subsection seek to achieve consensus 
or if it is a Minister referred to in section 91 , after consultation with the Executive Deputy Presidents and the leaders of the participating parties . 
and by replacing this Constitution , wherever this occurs in section 236 , with the new Constitution . 
not more than 27 Ministers who are members of the National Assembly and appointed in terms of subsections to ; 
Members of Executive Councils must administer their portfolios in accordance with the policy determined by the Council . 
held jointly by the participating parties by the number of portfolios in respect of which Ministers referred to in subsection are to be appointed , plus one . 
or any other person to act in the said Deputy Ministers stead , either generally or in the exercise or performance of any specific power or function . 
Section 96 of the new Constitution is deemed to contain the following additional subsections : 
and not more than one Minister who is not a member of the National Assembly and appointed in terms of subsection , provided the President , 
is entitled to be allocated one or more of the Cabinet portfolios in respect of which Ministers referred to in subsection are to be appointed , 
a Minister , must be read as a reference to a member of an Executive Council ; 
GOVERNMENT OF NATIONAL UNITY : 
Subsection must be implemented in the spirit embodied in the concept of a government of national unity , 
or if it becomes necessary for the purposes of the Constitution or in the interest of good government ; 
the decision of the leader of the party of which such person is a member prevails ; 
The President 
terminate any appointment under paragraph - 
the Cabinet , must be read as a reference to an Executive Council ; 
an effective administration in the national sphere of government to deal with matters within the jurisdiction of the national sphere ; 
The amendment of section 236 of the previous Constitution- 
Executive Council portfolios must be allocated to the respective participating parties according to the same formula set out in section 91 , and in applying that formula a reference in that section to- 
The amendment of section 227 of the previous Constitution by replacing subsection with the following subsection : 
A party is entitled to be allocated one or more of the deputy ministerial posts in the same proportion and according to the same formula that portfolios in the Cabinet are allocated . 
A public service , department of state , administration or security service which immediately before the commencement of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa , 1996 , 
the appointment of provincial commissioners ; 
and in such application a reference in that section to a Minister or a portfolio must be read as a reference to a Deputy Minister or a deputy ministerial post , respectively . 
The President may appoint a commission to review the conclusion or amendment of a contract , the appointment or promotion , 
shall devolve upon the National Defence Force in accordance with the directions of the Minister of Defence . 
Subject to the directions of the Minister of Safety and Security , the National Commissioner shall be responsible for- ; 
and any reference in any legislation to that Minister must be construed as including a reference to the Deputy Minister acting in terms of an assignment under paragraph by the Minister for whom that Deputy Minister acts . 
the exercise of a power referred to in paragraph , or of that subsection affecting a person who is not a member of the Presidents party , 
Whenever this section requires information to be given to a person , that information must be given in a language that the person understands . 
and to form and join a federation . 
to have a legal practitioner assigned to the detained person by the state and at state expense , if substantial injustice would otherwise result , and to be informed of this right promptly ; 
to adduce and challenge evidence ; 
Everyone has the right to use the language and to participate in the cultural life of their choice , 
Just administrative action 
to be informed of the charge with sufficient detail to answer it ; 
to determine its own administration , programmes and activities ; 
Arrested , detained and accused persons 
to be presumed innocent , to remain silent , and not to testify during the proceedings ; 
where appropriate , another independent and impartial tribunal or forum . 
of the right to remain silent ; 
not to be convicted for an act or omission that was not an offence under either national or international law at the time it was committed or omitted ; 
Health care , food , water and social security 
and to strike . 
and not to be used directly in armed conflict , and to be protected in times of armed conflict . 
to have adequate time and facilities to prepare a defence ; 
to choose , and be represented by , a legal practitioner , and to be informed of this right promptly ; 
sufficient food and water ; 
spouse or partner ; 
not to be required or permitted to perform work or provide services that- 
Persons belonging to a cultural , religious or linguistic community may not be denied the right , with other members of that community- 
to basic nutrition , shelter , basic health care services and social services ; 
Every employer has the right- 
The state must take reasonable legislative and other measures , within its available resources , to achieve the progressive realisation of each of these rights . 
and the need to redress the results of past racially discriminatory laws and practices . 
to be brought before a court as soon as reasonably possible , but not later than- 
Everyone has the right- 
Everyone has the right to have any dispute that can be resolved by the application of law decided in a fair public hearing before a court or , 
to organise ; 
to form and join an employers organisation ; 
to be protected from maltreatment , neglect , abuse or degradation ; 
and to have the environment protected , for the benefit of present and future generations , through reasonable legislative and other measures that- 
No provision of this section may impede the state from taking legislative and other measures to achieve land , water and related reform , 
do not discriminate on the basis of race ; 
Cultural , religious and linguistic communities 
to a public trial before an ordinary court ; 
The rights in subsection may not be exercised in a manner inconsistent with any provision of the Bill of Rights . 
and any information that is held by another person and that is required for the exercise or protection of any rights . 
and maintain standards that are not inferior to standards at comparable public educational institutions . 
provide for the review of administrative action by a court or , where appropriate , an independent and impartial tribunal ; 
Everyone who is arrested for allegedly committing an offence has the right- 
to have their trial begin and conclude without unreasonable delay ; 
to have a legal practitioner assigned to the accused person by the state and at state expense , if substantial injustice would otherwise result , and to be informed of this right promptly ; 
impose a duty on the state to give effect to the rights in subsections and ; 
Everyone has the right of access to- 
In this section child means a person under the age of 18 years . 
to a name and a nationality from birth ; 
National legislation must be enacted to give effect to these rights , and must- 
not to be tried for an offence in respect of an act or omission for which that person has previously been either acquitted or convicted ; 
Everyone has the right to have access to- 
to choose , and to consult with , a legal practitioner , and to be informed of this right promptly ; 
Every accused person has a right to a fair trial , which includes the right- 
and to further education , which the state , through reasonable measures , must make progressively available and accessible . 
for a public purpose or in the public interest ; 
Everyone has the right to receive education in the official language or languages of their choice in public educational institutions where that education is reasonably practicable . 
and to communicate with , and be visited by , that persons- 
Education 
Every child has the right- 
and treated in a manner , and kept in conditions , that take account of the childs age ; 
to enjoy their culture , practise their religion and use their language ; 
the extent of direct state investment and subsidy in the acquisition and beneficial capital improvement of the property ; 
but no one exercising these rights may do so in a manner inconsistent with any provision of the Bill of Rights . 
Labour relations 
kept separately from detained persons over the age of 18 years ; 
practicability ; 
No one may be refused emergency medical treatment . 
not to be detained except as a measure of last resort , in which case , in addition to the rights a child enjoys under sections 12 and 35 , 
and the purpose of the expropriation . 
Everyone has the right- 
To the extent that the legislation may limit a right in this Chapter the limitation must comply with section 36 . 
in order to redress the results of past racial discrimination , provided that any departure from the provisions of this section is in accordance with the provisions of section 36 . 
and promote an efficient administration . 
Access to courts 
Every worker has the right- 
Evidence obtained in a manner that violates any right in the Bill of Rights must be excluded if the admission of that evidence would render the trial unfair or otherwise be detrimental to the administration of justice . 
to challenge the lawfulness of the detention in person before a court and , if the detention is unlawful , to be released ; 
A person or community dispossessed of property after 19 June 1913 as a result of past racially discriminatory laws or practices is entitled , 
are inappropriate for a person of that childs age ; 
No one may be deprived of property except in terms of law of general application , and no law may permit arbitrary deprivation of property . 
to form and join a trade union ; 
and chosen medical practitioner . 
Everyone has the right to have access to adequate housing . 
Property may be expropriated only in terms of law of general application- 
to participate in the activities and programmes of a trade union ; 
and subject to compensation , the amount of which and the time and manner of payment of which have either been agreed to by those affected or decided or approved by a court . 
or the end of the first court day after the expiry of the 48 hours , if the 48 hours expire outside ordinary court hours or on a day which is not an ordinary court day ; 
to be protected from exploitative labour practices ; 
The state must take reasonable legislative and other measures , within its available resources , to foster conditions which enable citizens to gain access to land on an equitable basis . 
National legislation must be enacted to give effect to this right , and may provide for reasonable measures to alleviate the administrative and financial burden on the state . 
The state must take reasonable legislative and other measures , within its available resources , to achieve the progressive realisation of this right . 
and to form , join and maintain cultural , religious and linguistic associations and other organs of civil society . 
the history of the acquisition and use of the property ; 
to be informed promptly of the reason for being detained ; 
not to be compelled to make any confession or admission that could be used in evidence against that person ; 
Subsection does not preclude state subsidies for independent educational institutions . 
Every trade union and every employers organisation has the right- 
and to participate in the activities and programmes of an employers organisation . 
In order to ensure the effective access to , and implementation of , this right , the state must consider all reasonable educational alternatives , including single medium institutions , taking into account- 
health care services , including reproductive health care ; 
The amount of the compensation and the time and manner of payment must be just and equitable , 
National legislation may be enacted to regulate collective bargaining . 
and of appeal to , or review by , a higher court . 
Every trade union , employers organisation and employer has the right to engage in collective bargaining . 
to be tried in a language that the accused person understands or , if that is not practicable , to have the proceedings interpreted in that language ; 
National legislation may recognise union security arrangements contained in collective agreements . 
promote conservation ; 
the public interest includes the nations commitment to land reform , and to reforms to bring about equitable access to all South Africas natural resources ; 
Everyone who is detained , including every sentenced prisoner , has the right- 
not to be compelled to give self-incriminating evidence ; 
Everyone has the right to administrative action that is lawful , reasonable and procedurally fair . 
to the extent provided by an Act of Parliament , either to tenure which is legally secure or to comparable redress . 
Access to information 
the market value of the property ; 
reflecting an equitable balance between the public interest and the interests of those affected , having regard to all relevant circumstances , including- 
prevent pollution and ecological degradation ; 
to the benefit of the least severe of the prescribed punishments if the prescribed punishment for the offence has been changed between the time that the offence was committed and the time of sentencing ; 
are registered with the state ; 
and of the consequences of not remaining silent ; 
A childs best interests are of paramount importance in every matter concerning the child . 
Parliament must enact the legislation referred to in subsection . 
and secure ecologically sustainable development and use of natural resources while promoting justifiable economic and social development . 
To the extent that the legislation may limit a right in this Chapter , the limitation must comply with section 36 . 
Everyone has the right to fair labour practices . 
No legislation may permit arbitrary evictions . 
and to be released from detention if the interests of justice permit , subject to reasonable conditions . 
to remain silent ; 
A person or community whose tenure of land is legally insecure as a result of past racially discriminatory laws or practices is entitled , 
Everyone whose rights have been adversely affected by administrative action has the right to be given written reasons . 
any information held by the state ; 
hours after the arrest ; 
to a basic education , including adult basic education ; 
to an environment that is not harmful to their health or wellbeing ; 
Language and culture 
to family care or parental care , or to appropriate alternative care when removed from the family environment ; 
to have a legal practitioner assigned to the child by the state , and at state expense , in civil proceedings affecting the child , if substantial injustice would otherwise result ; 
at the first court appearance after being arrested , to be charged or to be informed of the reason for the detention to continue , or to be released ; 
and social security , including , if they are unable to support themselves and their dependents , appropriate social assistance . 
or place at risk the childs wellbeing , education , physical or mental health or spiritual , moral or social development ; 
the child may be detained only for the shortest appropriate period of time , and has the right to be- 
No one may be evicted from their home , or have their home demolished , without an order of court made after considering all the relevant circumstances . 
Everyone has the right to establish and maintain , at their own expense , independent educational institutions that- 
to conditions of detention that are consistent with human dignity , including at least exercise and the provision , at state expense , of adequate accommodation , nutrition , reading material and medical treatment ; 
to the extent provided by an Act of Parliament , either to restitution of that property or to equitable redress . 
have the same privileges and immunities before a joint committee of the Assembly and the Council as they have before the Assembly or the 
and the court must release the detainee unless it is still necessary to continue the detention to restore peace and order . 
and subsection in respect of children of 15 years and younger . 
The first extension of the state of emergency must be by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote of a majority of the members of the Assembly . 
and procedures provided for that purpose , and must exhaust all other remedies before it approaches a court to resolve the dispute . 
National legislative authority 
adhering to agreed procedures ; 
the Mediation Committee ; 
the effective exercise of a power concerning any matter listed in Schedule 4 is , for all purposes , legislation with regard to a matter listed in Schedule 4 . 
and any other matter required by the Constitution to be passed in accordance with section 76 ; 
the rights in paragraphs to of subsection , excluding paragraph ; 
Instead , the state must comply with the standards binding on the Republic under international humanitarian law in respect of the detention of such persons . 
to participate in amending the Constitution in accordance with section 74 ; 
A court must review the detention as soon as reasonably possible , but no later than 10 days after the date the person was detained , 
and to assign any of its legislative powers , except the power to amend the Constitution , to any legislative body in another sphere of government ; 
the National Assembly ; 
The National Council of Provinces represents the provinces to ensure that provincial interests are taken into account in the national sphere of government . 
and cooperate with one another in mutual trust and good faith by- 
be loyal to the Constitution , the Republic and its people ; 
to pass , in accordance with section 76 , legislation with regard to any matter within a functional area listed in Schedule 4 
may apply to a court for a further review of the detention at any time after 10 days have passed since the previous review , 
and the National Council of Provinces . 
a declaration of a state of emergency ; 
and confers on the National Council of Provinces the power- 
informing one another of , and consulting one another on , matters of common interest ; 
and subsection with respect to the exclusion of evidence if the admission of that evidence would render the trial unfair . 
the rights in subparagraphs and of subsection ; 
The National Assembly is elected to represent the people and to ensure government by the people under the Constitution . 
When exercising its legislative authority ; 
fostering friendly relations ; 
and security of the person 
or any legislation enacted , or other action taken , in consequence of a declaration of a state of emergency . 
customary law or legislation , to the extent that they are consistent with the Bill . 
States of emergency 
the nature and extent of the limitation ; 
provide effective , transparent , accountable and coherent government for the Republic as a whole ; 
Parliament may intervene , by passing legislation in accordance with section 76 , with regard to a matter falling within a functional area listed in Schedule 5 , when it is necessary- 
Except as provided in subsection or in any other provision of the Constitution , no law may limit any right entrenched in the Bill of Rights . 
The Assembly may extend a declaration of a state of emergency for no more than three months at a time . 
The National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces must establish a joint rules committee to make rules and orders concerning the joint business of the Assembly and Council , including rules and orders- 
It does this by choosing the President , by providing a national forum for public consideration of issues , by passing legislation and by scrutinizing and overseeing executive action . 
to determine procedures to facilitate the legislative process , including setting a time limit for completing any step in the process ; 
the relation between the limitation and its purpose ; 
anyone acting on behalf of another person who cannot act in their own name ; 
and for no more than 21 days from the date of the declaration , unless the National Assembly resolves to extend the declaration . 
to establish minimum standards required for the rendering of services ; 
and an association acting in the interest of its members . 
With respect to subsections and and 2 
to amend the Constitution ; 
detained 
Any competent court may decide on the validity of- 
to maintain national security ; 
A declaration of a state of emergency , and any legislation enacted or other action taken in consequence of that declaration , may be effective only- 
and the declaration is necessary to restore peace and order . 
indemnifying the state , or any person , in respect of any unlawful act ; 
The detainee must be allowed to choose , and be visited at any reasonable time by , a medical practitioner . 
When interpreting any legislation , and when developing the common law or customary law , every court , tribunal or forum must promote the spirit , purport and objects of the Bill of Rights . 
All spheres of government must observe and adhere to the principles in this Chapter and must conduct their activities within the parameters that the Chapter provides . 
and provide for appropriate mechanisms and procedures to facilitate settlement of intergovernmental disputes . 
The National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces participate in the legislative process in the manner set out in the Constitution . 
and to regulate the business of- 
The seat of Parliament is Cape Town , but an Act of Parliament enacted in accordance with section 76 and may determine that the seat of Parliament is elsewhere . 
A detainee who is not released in terms of a review under paragraph , or who is not released in terms of a review under this paragraph , 
of the provincial sphere of government is vested in the provincial legislatures , as set out in section 104 ; 
Whenever anyone is detained without trial in consequence of a derogation of rights resulting from a declaration of a state of emergency , the following conditions must be observed : 
and avoiding legal proceedings against one another . 
The President may summon Parliament to an extraordinary sitting at at any time conduct special business . 
Joint rules and orders and joint committees 
With respect to unfair discrimination solely on the grounds of race , colour , ethnic or social origin , sex , religion or language 
any extension of a declaration of a state of emergency ; 
CHAPTER 3 
A state of emergency may be declared only in terms of an Act of Parliament , and only when- 
The state must present written reasons to the court to justify the continued detention of the detainee , 
No Act of Parliament that authorises a declaration of a state of emergency , and no legislation enacted or other action taken in consequence of a declaration , may permit or authorise- 
must promote the values that underlie an open and democratic society based on human dignity , equality and freedom ; 
Legislation with regard to a matter that is reasonably necessary for , or incidental to , 
Interpretation of Bill of Rights 
exercise their powers and perform their functions in a manner that does not encroach on the geographical , functional or institutional integrity of government in another sphere ; 
and to consider , in accordance with section 75 , any other legislation passed by the National Assembly . 
and must give a copy of those reasons to the detainee at least two days before the court reviews the detention . 
CHAPTER 4 
Cabinet members , members of the National Assembly and delegates to the National Council of Provinces 
The detainee must be allowed to appear in person before any court considering the detention , to be represented by a legal practitioner at those hearings , and to make representations against continued detention . 
to establish joint committees composed of representatives from both the Assembly and the Council to consider and report on Bills envisaged in sections 74 and 75 that are referred to such a committee ; 
All spheres of government and all organs of state within each sphere must- 
assisting and supporting one another ; 
is consistent with the Republics obligations under international law applicable to states of emergency ; 
the life of the nation is threatened by war , invasion , general insurrection , disorder , natural disaster or other public emergency ; 
preserve the peace , national unity and the indivisibility of the Republic ; 
the constitutional review committee ; 
Equality 
Arrested , 
or any derogation from a section mentioned in column 1 of the Table of nonderogable Rights , to the extent indicated opposite that section in column 3 of the Table . 
Parliament consists of- 
In the Republic , the legislative authority- 
and accused 
and of the local sphere of government is vested in the Municipal Councils , as set out in section 156 . 
and any joint committees established in terms of paragraph . 
Subsections and do not apply to persons who are not South African citizens and who are detained in consequence of an international armed conflict . 
the derogation is strictly required by the emergency ; 
The Bill of Rights does not deny the existence of any other rights or freedoms that are recognised or conferred by common law , 
The persons who may approach a court are- 
cooperative GOVERNMENT 
Slavery , servitude and forced labour 
It does this mainly by participating in the national legislative process and by providing a national forum for public consideration of issues affecting the provinces . 
An adult family member or friend of the detainee must be contacted as soon as reasonably possible , and informed that the person has been detained . 
but excluding , subject to subsection , a matter within a functional area listed in Schedule 5 ; 
to maintain economic unity ; 
anyone acting as a member of , or in the interest of , a group or class of persons ; 
or to prevent unreasonable action taken by a province which is prejudicial to the interests of another province or to the country as a whole . 
stating the detainees name and place of detention and referring to the emergency measure in terms of which that person has been detained . 
to establish a joint committee to review the Constitution at least annually ; 
co-ordinating their actions and legislation with one another ; 
Human dignity 
not assume any power or function except those conferred on them in terms of the Constitution ; 
Freedom 
Limitation of rights 
When interpreting the Bill of Rights , a court , tribunal or forum- 
Composition of Parliament 
The detainee must be allowed to choose , and be visited at any reasonable time by , a legal representative . 
The national legislative authority as vested in Parliament- 
establish or provide for structures and institutions to promote and facilitate intergovernmental relations ; 
and is published in the national Government Gazette as soon as reasonably possible after being enacted . 
to pass legislation with regard to any matter , including a matter within a functional area listed in Schedule 4 , 
The rights in the Bill of Rights may be limited only in terms of law of general application to the extent that the limitation is reasonable 
In the Republic , government is constituted as national , provincial and local spheres of government which are distinctive , interdependent and interrelated . 
respect the constitutional status , institutions , powers and functions of government in the other spheres ; 
Table of nonderogable Rights 
the nature of the right ; 
A notice must be published in the national Government Gazette within five days of the person being detained , 
Any subsequent extension must be by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote of at least 60 per cent of the members of the Assembly . 
and justifiable in an open and democratic society based on human dignity , equality and freedom , taking into account all relevant factors , including- 
Any legislation enacted in consequence of a declaration of a state of emergency may derogate from the Bill of Rights only to the extent that- 
and less restrictive means to achieve the purpose . 
If a court is not satisfied that the requirements of subsection have been met , it may refer a dispute back to the organs of state involved . 
and the court may grant appropriate relief , including a declaration of rights . 
Legislative authority of the Republic 
Anyone listed in this section has the right to approach a competent court , alleging that a right in the Bill of Rights has been infringed or threatened , 
confers on the National Assembly the power- 
the importance of the purpose of the limitation ; 
any derogation from this section ; 
An organ of state involved in an intergovernmental dispute must make every reasonable effort to settle the dispute by means of mechanisms 
of the national sphere of government is vested in Parliament , as set out in section 44 ; 
anyone acting in the public interest ; 
If a court releases a detainee , that person may not be detained again on the same grounds unless the state first shows a court good cause for re-detaining that person . 
Government of the Republic 
PARLIAMENT 
Parliament is bound only by the Constitution , and must act in accordance with , and within the limits of , the Constitution . 
and may consider foreign law . 
An Act of Parliament must- 
must consider international law ; 
Extent to which the right is nonderogable 
anyone acting in their own interest ; 
and the court must release the detainee unless it is necessary to continue the detention to restore peace and order . 
ceases to be eligible to be a member of the provincial legislature for any reason other than being appointed as a permanent delegate ; 
determine and control its internal arrangements , proceedings and procedures ; 
and the recognition of the leader of the largest opposition party in the Assembly as the Leader of the Opposition . 
A person loses membership of the National Assembly if that person- 
A provincial legislature must , within 30 days after the result of an election of that legislature is declared- 
The member of the National Assembly presiding at a meeting of the Assembly has no deliberative vote , but- 
must provide for a uniform procedure in terms of which provincial legislatures confer authority on their delegations to cast votes on their behalf . 
Duration of National Assembly 
the Premier of the province or , if the Premier is not available , any member of the provincial legislature designated by the Premier either generally or for any specific business before the National Council of Provinces ; 
immediately before the first sitting of a provincial legislature after its next election ; 
In terms of its rules and orders , the National Council of Provinces may elect from among the delegates other presiding officers to assist the Chairperson and Deputy Chairpersons . 
Rights of certain Cabinet members and Deputy Ministers in the National Assembly 
ceases to be eligible ; 
and to provide for the searching of any person and , where appropriate , the refusal of entry to , or the removal of , any person . 
National Assembly must elect a Speaker and a Deputy Speaker from among its members . 
National Council of Provinces 
the Assembly has adopted a resolution to dissolve with a supporting vote of a majority of its members ; 
the President , by proclamation , must call and set dates for another election , which must be held within 90 days 
the establishment , composition , powers , functions , procedures and duration of its committees ; 
If a person who is a member of a provincial legislature is appointed as a permanent delegate , that person ceases to be a member of the legislature . 
The National Assembly 
and other office-bearers whose functions are compatible with the functions of a member of the Assembly , and have been declared compatible with those functions by national legislation ; 
Permanent delegates are appointed for a term that expires- 
A person ceases to be a permanent delegate if that person- 
In terms of its rules and orders , the National Assembly may elect from among its members other presiding officers to assist the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker . 
which must be held within 90 days of the date the Assembly was dissolved or its term expired . 
Allocation of delegates 
The National Assembly 
and conduct its business in an open manner , and hold its sittings , and those of its committees , in public , but reasonable measures may be taken- 
at least one third of the members must be present before a vote may be taken on any other question before the Assembly ; 
is prescribed by national legislation ; 
The National Assembly may not exclude the public , including the media , from a sitting of a committee unless it is reasonable and justifiable to do so in an open and democratic society . 
or is absent from the National Council of Provinces without permission in circumstances for which the rules and orders of the Council prescribe loss of office as a permanent delegate . 
there is a vacancy in the office of President ; 
Before members of the National Assembly begin to perform their functions in the Assembly , they must swear or affirm faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 . 
only on the grounds of public interest , security or convenience , and if provided for in the rules and orders of the Council . 
or anything revealed as a result of anything that they have said in , produced before or submitted to the Assembly or any of its committees . 
attend and speak in the Assembly , but may not vote . 
consider , pass , amend or reject any legislation before the Assembly ; 
Powers of National Council 
summon any person to appear before it to give evidence on oath or affirmation , or to produce documents ; 
or a provincial executive to attend a meeting of the Council or a committee of the Council . 
The National Council of Provinces may determine the time and duration of its sittings and its recess periods . 
A majority of the members of the Assembly must be present when the resolution is adopted . 
In exercising its legislative power , the National Assembly may- 
An Act of Parliament must provide a formula for determining the number of members of the National Assembly . 
Chairperson and Deputy Chairpersons 
The national legislation envisaged in subsection must ensure the participation of minority parties in both the permanent 
and three other special delegates ; 
The National Assembly is elected for a term of five years . 
Sittings and recess periods 
The National Council of Provinces or any of its committees may- 
The President may summon the National Assembly to an extraordinary sitting at any time to conduct special business . 
compel , in terms of national legislation or the rules and orders , any person or institution to comply with a summons or requirement in terms of paragraph or ; 
including access of the media , to the Assembly and its committees ; 
and all questions before the Assembly are decided by a majority of the votes cast . 
to ensure that all executive organs of state in the national sphere of government are accountable to it ; 
The ten delegates are- 
The National Assembly or any of its committees may- 
and receive petitions , representations or submissions from any interested persons or institutions . 
a majority of the members of the National Assembly must be present before a vote may be taken on a Bill or an amendment to a Bill ; 
The National Council of Provinces may remove the Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson from office . 
and the participation in the proceedings of the Council and its committees of minority parties represented in the Council , in a manner consistent with democracy , 
and results , in general , in proportional representation . 
Cabinet members and Deputy Ministers may attend , and may speak in , the 
Sittings of the National Assembly are permitted at places other than the seat of Parliament 
After an election , the first sitting of the National Assembly must take place at a time and on a date determined by the Chief Justice , 
The other Deputy Chairperson is elected for a term of one year , and must be succeeded by a delegate from another province , so that every province is represented in turn . 
unrehabilitated insolvents ; 
summon any person to appear before it to give evidence on oath or affirmation or to produce documents ; 
The Chief Justice must preside over the election of a Speaker , or designate 
Internal arrangements , proceedings and procedures of National Council 
of the expiry of that period or of the date on which the election was set aside . 
Permanent delegates 
and are not liable to civil or criminal proceedings , arrest , imprisonment or damages for- 
Speaker and Deputy Speaker 
Parties represented in a provincial legislature are entitled to delegates in the provinces delegation in accordance with the formula set out in Part B of Schedule 3 . 
has lost the confidence of the provincial legislature and is recalled by the party that nominated that person ; 
the President , Deputy President , Ministers and Deputy Ministers ; 
four special delegates consisting of- 
Sittings of National Council 
Vacancies in the National Assembly must be filled in terms of national legislation . 
have freedom of speech in the Assembly and in its committees , subject to its rules and orders ; 
Every citizen who is qualified to vote for the National Assembly is eligible to be a member of the Assembly , except- 
anyone declared to be of unsound mind by a court of the Republic ; 
Chairpersons from among the delegates . 
An Act of Parliament , enacted in accordance with the procedure established by either subsection or subsection of section 76 , 
Participation by members of National executive 
whenever a matter is to be decided in accordance with section 75 . 
The National Council of Provinces must elect a Chairperson and two Deputy 
If the National Assembly is dissolved in terms of section 50 , or when its term expires , the President , by proclamation , must call and set dates for an election , 
must cast a deciding vote when there is an equal number of votes on each side of a question ; 
The Acting President must dissolve the National Assembly if- 
In exercising its legislative power , the National Council of Provinces may- 
require any person or institution to report to it ; 
ceases to be a member of the party that nominated that person and is recalled by that party ; 
determine , in accordance with national legislation , how many of each partys delegates are to be permanent delegates and how many are to be special delegates ; 
may- 
and may cast a deliberative vote when a question must be decided with a supporting vote of at least two thirds of the members of the Assembly . 
Not more than ten part-time representatives designated by organised local government in terms of section 163 , 
The procedure set out in Part A of Schedule 3 applies to the election of the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairpersons . 
Public access to and involvement in National Assembly 
and special delegates components of the delegation in a manner consistent with democracy . 
only on the grounds of public interest , security or convenience , and if provided for in the rules and orders of the Assembly . 
to represent the different categories of municipalities , may participate when necessary in the proceedings of the National Council of Provinces , but may not vote . 
permanent delegates to the National Council of Provinces or members of a provincial legislature or a Municipal Council ; 
Vacancies among the permanent delegates must be filled in terms of national legislation . 
determine and control its internal arrangements , proceedings and procedures ; 
anything that they have said in , produced before or submitted to the Assembly or any of its committees ; 
The legislature , with the concurrence of the Premier and the leaders of the parties entitled to special delegates in the provinces delegation , 
is based on the national common voters roll ; 
A person nominated as a permanent delegate must be eligible to be a member of the provincial legislature . 
to enable the party and its leader to perform their functions in the Assembly effectively ; 
and initiate or prepare legislation , except money Bills . 
If the result of an election of the National Assembly is not declared within the period established in terms of section 190 , or if an election is set aside by a court , 
The Chairperson and one of the Deputy Chairpersons are elected from among the permanent delegates for five years unless their terms as delegates expire earlier . 
Before permanent delegates begin to perform their functions in the National Council of Provinces , they must swear or affirm faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 . 
require any institution or person to report to it ; 
compel , in terms of national legislation or the rules and orders , any person or institution to comply with a summons or requirement in terms of paragraph or ; 
The rules and orders of the National Assembly must provide for- 
must designate special delegates , as required from time to time , from among the members of the legislature . 
the exercise of national executive authority , including the implementation of legislation ; 
financial and administrative assistance to each party represented in the Assembly in proportion to its representation , 
Cabinet members , Deputy Ministers and members of the National Assembly- 
Salaries , allowances and benefits payable to members of the National 
The National Council of Provinces may- 
A person who is not eligible to be a member of the National Assembly in terms of subsection or may be a candidate for the Assembly , subject to any limits or conditions established by national legislation . 
and receive petitions , representations or submissions from any interested persons or institutions . 
The National Assembly must- 
or anyone who , after this section took effect , is convicted of an offence 
the participation in the proceedings of the Assembly and its committees of minority parties represented in the Assembly , in a manner consistent with democracy ; 
and initiate or prepare legislation falling within a functional area listed in Schedule 4 or other legislation referred to in section 76 , but may not initiate or prepare money Bills . 
At the first sitting after its election , or when necessary to fill a vacancy , the 
The Premier of a province , or if the Premier is not available , a member of the provinces delegation designated by the Premier , heads the delegation . 
Participation by local government representatives 
provides for a minimum voting age of 18 years ; 
Composition of National Council 
Assembly are a direct charge against the National Revenue Fund. 
and make rules and orders concerning its business , with due regard to representative and participatory democracy , accountability , transparency and public involvement . 
Sittings of the National Council of Provinces are permitted at places other than the seat of Parliament 
The Chairperson presides over the election of the Deputy Chairpersons . 
The National Assembly remains competent to function from the time it is dissolved or its term expires , until the day before the first day of polling for the next Assembly . 
The President and any member of the Cabinet or any Deputy Minister who is not a member of the National Assembly may , subject to the rules and orders of the Assembly , 
the establishment , composition , powers , functions , procedures and duration of its committees ; 
Internal arrangements , proceedings and procedures of National Assembly 
The President may summon the National Council of Provinces to an extraordinary sitting at any time to conduct special business . 
Powers of National Assembly 
The Chief Justice must preside over the election of the Chairperson , or designate another judge to do so . 
anyone who is appointed by , or is in the service of , the state and receives remuneration for that appointment or service , other than- 
Dissolution of National Assembly before expiry of its term 
and six permanent delegates appointed in terms of section 61 . 
The National Assembly must provide for mechanisms- 
but no one may be regarded as having been sentenced until an appeal against the conviction or sentence has been determined , or until the time for an appeal has expired . 
The procedure set out in Part A of Schedule 3 applies to the election of the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker . 
and make rules and orders concerning its business , with due regard to representative and participatory democracy , accountability , transparency and public involvement . 
Oath or affirmation 
Evidence or information before National Council 
Evidence or information before National Assembly 
each province has one vote , which is cast on behalf of the province by the head of its delegation ; 
The President must dissolve the National Assembly if- 
The Assembly may determine the time and duration of its other sittings and its recess periods . 
The rules and orders of the National Council of Provinces must provide for- 
and the Assembly fails to elect a new President within 30 days after the vacancy occurred . 
The National Assembly may remove the Speaker or Deputy Speaker from office by resolution . 
if the conduct constituting the offence would have been an offence in the Republic , 
facilitate public involvement in the legislative and other processes of the Assembly and its committees ; 
A disqualification under this paragraph ends five years after the sentence has been completed . 
and sentenced to more than 12 months imprisonment without the option of a fine , either in the Republic , or outside the Republic 
and three years have passed since the Assembly was elected . 
but not more than 14 days after the election result has been declared . 
The National Council of Provinces is composed of a single delegation from each province consisting of ten delegates . 
Composition and election 
the participation of all the provinces in its proceedings in a manner consistent with democracy ; 
Other privileges and immunities of the National Assembly , Cabinet members and members of the Assembly may be prescribed by national legislation . 
consider , pass , amend , propose amendments to or reject any legislation before the Council , in accordance with this Chapter ; 
the National Assembly consists of no fewer than 350 and no more than 400 women and men elected as members in terms of an electoral system that- 
and appoint the permanent delegates in accordance with the nominations of the parties . 
and to maintain oversight of- 
National Council of Provinces , but may not vote . 
is absent from the Assembly without permission in circumstances for which the rules and orders of the Assembly prescribe loss of membership ; 
becomes a member of the Cabinet ; 
and any organ of state . 
The National Council of Provinces may require a Cabinet member , a Deputy Minister or an official in the national executive 
to regulate public access , 
and all questions before the National Council of Provinces are agreed when at least five provinces vote in favour of the question . 
the Bill must be referred to the Assembly , and if it is passed by the Assembly , it must be submitted to the President for assent . 
assenting to and signing Bills ; 
referring a Bill to the Constitutional Court for a decision on the Bills constitutionality ; 
appointing ambassadors , plenipotentiaries , and diplomatic and consular representatives ; 
making any appointments that the Constitution or legislation requires the President to make , other than as head of the national executive ; 
and conferring honours . 
pardoning or reprieving offenders and remitting any fines , penalties or forfeitures ; 
summoning the National Assembly , the National Council of Provinces or Parliament to an extraordinary sitting to conduct special business ; 
The President has the powers entrusted by the Constitution and legislation , including those necessary to perform the functions of Head of State and head of the national executive . 
If the Mediation Committee agrees on the amended Bill as passed by the Council , 
calling a national referendum in terms of an Act of Parliament ; 
referring a Bill back to the National Assembly for reconsideration of the Bills constitutionality ; 
is the Head of State and head of the national executive ; 
must uphold , defend and respect the Constitution as the supreme law of the Republic ; 
CHAPTER 5 
Powers and functions of President 
and promotes the unity of the nation and that which will advance the Republic . 
appointing commissions of inquiry ; 
receiving and recognising foreign diplomatic and consular representatives ; 
THE PRESIDENT AND NATIONAL EXECUTIVE 83 The President 
The signed copy of an Act of Parliament is conclusive evidence of the provisions of that Act and , after publication , must be entrusted to the Constitutional Court for safekeeping . 
Safekeeping of Acts of Parliament 
Publication of Acts 
A Bill assented to and signed by the President becomes an Act of Parliament , must be published promptly , and takes effect when published or on a date determined in terms of the Act . 
The Constitutional Court may order that all or part of an Act that is the subject of an application in terms of subsection has no force until the Court has decided the application if- 
must be supported by at least one third of the members of the National Assembly ; 
An application- 
If an application is unsuccessful , and did not have a reasonable prospect of success , the Constitutional Court may order the applicants to pay costs . 
and the application has a reasonable prospect of success . 
and must be made within 30 days of the date on which the President assented to and signed the Act . 
If , after reconsideration , a Bill fully accommodates the Presidents reservations , the President must assent to and sign the Bill ; 
The National Council of Provinces must participate in the reconsideration of a Bill that the President has referred back to the National Assembly if- 
if the President has reservations about the constitutionality of the Bill , refer it back to the National Assembly for reconsideration . 
or section 74 , or or 76 was applicable in the passing of the Bill . 
or refer it to the Constitutional Court for a decision on its constitutionality . 
If the Constitutional Court decides that the Bill is constitutional , the President must assent to and sign it . 
The joint rules and orders must provide for the procedure for the reconsideration of a Bill by the National Assembly and the participation of the National Council of Provinces in the process . 
Application by members of National Assembly to Constitutional Court 
The President must either assent to and sign a Bill passed in terms of this Chapter or , 
Members of the National Assembly may apply to the Constitutional Court for an order declaring that all or part of an Act of Parliament is unconstitutional . 
Assent to Bills 
the Presidents reservations about the constitutionality of the Bill relate to a procedural matter that involves the Council ; 
Mediation Committee 
of the Assembly and results in the representation of parties in substantially the same proportion that the parties are represented in the Assembly ; 
nine members of the National Assembly elected by the Assembly in accordance with a procedure that is prescribed by the rules and orders 
and at least five of the representatives of the National Council of Provinces . 
and if it is passed by the Assembly and the Council , it must be submitted to the President for assent . 
The Mediation Committee has agreed on a version of a Bill , or decided a question , when that version , or one side of the question , is supported by- 
assent to and sign the Bill ; 
and one delegate from each provincial delegation in the National Council of Provinces , designated by the delegation . 
If the Mediation Committee agrees on another version of the Bill , that version of the Bill must be referred to both the Assembly and the Council , 
at least five of the representatives of the National Assembly ; 
The Mediation Committee consists of- 
A Bill is a money Bill if it- 
A money Bill may not deal with any other matter except- 
All money Bills must be considered in accordance with the procedure established by section 75 . 
imposes national taxes , levies , duties or surcharges ; 
An Act of Parliament must provide for a procedure to amend money Bills before Parliament . 
appropriates money ; 
the imposition , abolition or reduction of national taxes , levies , duties or surcharges ; 
This section does not apply to money Bills . 
to establish a joint committee to review the Constitution at least annually ; 
Cabinet members , members of the National Assembly and delegates to the National Council of Provinces 
and is published in the national Government Gazette as soon as reasonably possible after being enacted . 
the derogation is strictly required by the emergency ; 
Executive authority of the Republic 
to establish joint committees composed of representatives from both the Assembly and the Council to consider and report on Bills envisaged in sections 74 and 75 that are referred to such a committee ; 
An election to fill a vacancy in the office of President must be held at a time and on a date determined by the Chief Justice , but not more than 30 days after the vacancy occurs . 
the nature and extent of the limitation ; 
the constitutional review committee ; 
Extent to which the right is nonderogable 
and performing any other executive function provided for in the Constitution or in national legislation . 
A declaration of a state of emergency , and any legislation enacted or other action taken in consequence of that declaration , may be effective only- 
Joint rules and orders and joint committees 
The Presidents term of office begins on assuming office and ends upon a vacancy occurring or when the person next elected President assumes office . 
Table of nonderogable Rights 
and to regulate the business of- 
Except as provided in subsection or in any other provision of the Constitution , no law may limit any right entrenched in the Bill of Rights . 
No Act of Parliament that authorises a declaration of a state of emergency , and no legislation enacted or other action taken in consequence of a declaration , may permit or authorise- 
and the declaration is necessary to restore peace and order . 
The executive authority of the Republic is vested in the President . 
any extension of a declaration of a state of emergency ; 
The Chief Justice must preside over the election of the President , or designate another judge to do so . 
or any derogation from a section mentioned in column 1 of the Table of nonderogable Rights , to the extent indicated opposite that section in column 3 of the Table . 
and for no more than 21 days from the date of the declaration , unless the National Assembly resolves to extend the declaration . 
A state of emergency may be declared only in terms of an Act of Parliament , and only when- 
At its first sitting after its election , and whenever necessary to fill a vacancy , the National Assembly must elect a woman or a man from among its members to be the President . 
the nature of the right ; 
When elected President , a person ceases to be a member of the National Assembly and , within five days , 
a declaration of a state of emergency ; 
Any competent court may decide on the validity of- 
Any subsequent extension must be by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote of at least 60 per cent of the members of the Assembly . 
The National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces must establish a joint rules committee to make rules and orders concerning the joint business of the Assembly and Council , including rules and orders- 
the life of the nation is threatened by war , invasion , general insurrection , disorder , natural disaster or other public emergency ; 
have the same privileges and immunities before a joint committee of the Assembly and the Council as they have before the Assembly or the 
No person may hold office as President for more than two terms , but when a person is elected to fill a vacancy in the office of President , 
implementing national legislation except where the Constitution or an Act of Parliament provides otherwise ; 
any derogation from this section ; 
must assume office by swearing or affirming faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 . 
preparing and initiating legislation ; 
the relation between the limitation and its purpose ; 
Equality 
Limitation of rights 
indemnifying the state , or any person , in respect of any unlawful act ; 
The procedure set out in Part A of Schedule 3 applies to the election of the President . 
When exercising its legislative authority ; 
and less restrictive means to achieve the purpose . 
to determine procedures to facilitate the legislative process , including setting a time limit for completing any step in the process ; 
States of emergency 
co-ordinating the functions of state departments and administrations ; 
and any joint committees established in terms of paragraph . 
the importance of the purpose of the limitation ; 
Parliament is bound only by the Constitution , and must act in accordance with , and within the limits of , the Constitution . 
developing and implementing national policy ; 
is consistent with the Republics obligations under international law applicable to states of emergency ; 
Assumption of office by President 
The President exercises the executive authority , together with the other members of the Cabinet , by- 
The rights in the Bill of Rights may be limited only in terms of law of general application to the extent that the limitation is reasonable 
the Mediation Committee ; 
and justifiable in an open and democratic society based on human dignity , equality and freedom , taking into account all relevant factors , including- 
or any legislation enacted , or other action taken , in consequence of a declaration of a state of emergency . 
Any legislation enacted in consequence of a declaration of a state of emergency may derogate from the Bill of Rights only to the extent that- 
to establish a joint committee to review the Constitution at least annually ; 
Cabinet members , members of the National Assembly and delegates to the National Council of Provinces 
and any joint committees established in terms of paragraph . 
have the same privileges and immunities before a joint committee of the Assembly and the Council as they have before the Assembly or the 
the life of the nation is threatened by war , invasion , general insurrection , disorder , natural disaster or other public emergency ;   the life of the nation is threatened by war , invasion , general insurrection , disorder , natural disaster or other public emergency ;   the life of the nation is threatened by war , invasion , general insurrection , disorder , natural disaster or other public emergency ; 
Extent to which the right is nonderogable   Extent to which the right is nonderogable   Extent to which the right is nonderogable 
Joint rules and orders and joint committees 
the constitutional review committee ; 
the Mediation Committee ;   the Mediation Committee ; 
Joint rules and orders and joint committees   Joint rules and orders and joint committees 
The Chief Justice must preside over the election of the President , or designate another judge to do so .   The Chief Justice must preside over the election of the President , or designate another judge to do so .   The Chief Justice must preside over the election of the President , or designate another judge to do so . 
The rights in the Bill of Rights may be limited only in terms of law of general application to the extent that the limitation is reasonable   The rights in the Bill of Rights may be limited only in terms of law of general application to the extent that the limitation is reasonable   The rights in the Bill of Rights may be limited only in terms of law of general application to the extent that the limitation is reasonable 
When exercising its legislative authority ;   When exercising its legislative authority ; 
co-ordinating the functions of state departments and administrations ;   co-ordinating the functions of state departments and administrations ;   co-ordinating the functions of state departments and administrations ; 
The National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces must establish a joint rules committee to make rules and orders concerning the joint business of the Assembly and Council , including rules and orders- 
The procedure set out in Part A of Schedule 3 applies to the election of the President .   The procedure set out in Part A of Schedule 3 applies to the election of the President .   The procedure set out in Part A of Schedule 3 applies to the election of the President . 
Any subsequent extension must be by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote of at least 60 per cent of the members of the Assembly .   Any subsequent extension must be by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote of at least 60 per cent of the members of the Assembly .   Any subsequent extension must be by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote of at least 60 per cent of the members of the Assembly . 
developing and implementing national policy ;   developing and implementing national policy ;   developing and implementing national policy ; 
The Presidents term of office begins on assuming office and ends upon a vacancy occurring or when the person next elected President assumes office .   The Presidents term of office begins on assuming office and ends upon a vacancy occurring or when the person next elected President assumes office . 
to establish joint committees composed of representatives from both the Assembly and the Council to consider and report on Bills envisaged in sections 74 and 75 that are referred to such a committee ;   to establish joint committees composed of representatives from both the Assembly and the Council to consider and report on Bills envisaged in sections 74 and 75 that are referred to such a committee ; 
States of emergency   States of emergency   States of emergency 
At its first sitting after its election , and whenever necessary to fill a vacancy , the National Assembly must elect a woman or a man from among its members to be the President .   At its first sitting after its election , and whenever necessary to fill a vacancy , the National Assembly must elect a woman or a man from among its members to be the President .   At its first sitting after its election , and whenever necessary to fill a vacancy , the National Assembly must elect a woman or a man from among its members to be the President . 
Any legislation enacted in consequence of a declaration of a state of emergency may derogate from the Bill of Rights only to the extent that-   Any legislation enacted in consequence of a declaration of a state of emergency may derogate from the Bill of Rights only to the extent that-   Any legislation enacted in consequence of a declaration of a state of emergency may derogate from the Bill of Rights only to the extent that- 
and to regulate the business of-   and to regulate the business of- 
Parliament is bound only by the Constitution , and must act in accordance with , and within the limits of , the Constitution .   Parliament is bound only by the Constitution , and must act in accordance with , and within the limits of , the Constitution . 
No Act of Parliament that authorises a declaration of a state of emergency , and no legislation enacted or other action taken in consequence of a declaration , may permit or authorise-   No Act of Parliament that authorises a declaration of a state of emergency , and no legislation enacted or other action taken in consequence of a declaration , may permit or authorise-   No Act of Parliament that authorises a declaration of a state of emergency , and no legislation enacted or other action taken in consequence of a declaration , may permit or authorise- 
the derogation is strictly required by the emergency ;   the derogation is strictly required by the emergency ;   the derogation is strictly required by the emergency ; 
Removal of President   Removal of President   Removal of President 
Assumption of office by President   Assumption of office by President   Assumption of office by President 
A declaration of a state of emergency , and any legislation enacted or other action taken in consequence of that declaration , may be effective only-   A declaration of a state of emergency , and any legislation enacted or other action taken in consequence of that declaration , may be effective only-   A declaration of a state of emergency , and any legislation enacted or other action taken in consequence of that declaration , may be effective only- 
and performing any other executive function provided for in the Constitution or in national legislation .   and performing any other executive function provided for in the Constitution or in national legislation .   and performing any other executive function provided for in the Constitution or in national legislation . 
must assume office by swearing or affirming faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 .   must assume office by swearing or affirming faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 .   must assume office by swearing or affirming faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 . 
and any joint committees established in terms of paragraph .   and any joint committees established in terms of paragraph . 
to establish joint committees composed of representatives from both the Assembly and the Council to consider and report on Bills envisaged in sections 74 and 75 that are referred to such a committee ; 
the constitutional review committee ;   the constitutional review committee ; 
implementing national legislation except where the Constitution or an Act of Parliament provides otherwise ;   implementing national legislation except where the Constitution or an Act of Parliament provides otherwise ;   implementing national legislation except where the Constitution or an Act of Parliament provides otherwise ; 
preparing and initiating legislation ;   preparing and initiating legislation ;   preparing and initiating legislation ; 
Except as provided in subsection or in any other provision of the Constitution , no law may limit any right entrenched in the Bill of Rights .   Except as provided in subsection or in any other provision of the Constitution , no law may limit any right entrenched in the Bill of Rights .   Except as provided in subsection or in any other provision of the Constitution , no law may limit any right entrenched in the Bill of Rights . 
Equality   Equality   Equality 
to establish a joint committee to review the Constitution at least annually ;   to establish a joint committee to review the Constitution at least annually ; 
or any derogation from a section mentioned in column 1 of the Table of nonderogable Rights , to the extent indicated opposite that section in column 3 of the Table .   or any derogation from a section mentioned in column 1 of the Table of nonderogable Rights , to the extent indicated opposite that section in column 3 of the Table .   or any derogation from a section mentioned in column 1 of the Table of nonderogable Rights , to the extent indicated opposite that section in column 3 of the Table . 
the importance of the purpose of the limitation ;   the importance of the purpose of the limitation ;   the importance of the purpose of the limitation ; 
have the same privileges and immunities before a joint committee of the Assembly and the Council as they have before the Assembly or the   have the same privileges and immunities before a joint committee of the Assembly and the Council as they have before the Assembly or the 
any derogation from this section ;   any derogation from this section ;   any derogation from this section ; 
An election to fill a vacancy in the office of President must be held at a time and on a date determined by the Chief Justice , but not more than 30 days after the vacancy occurs .   An election to fill a vacancy in the office of President must be held at a time and on a date determined by the Chief Justice , but not more than 30 days after the vacancy occurs .   An election to fill a vacancy in the office of President must be held at a time and on a date determined by the Chief Justice , but not more than 30 days after the vacancy occurs . 
The President exercises the executive authority , together with the other members of the Cabinet , by-   The President exercises the executive authority , together with the other members of the Cabinet , by-   The President exercises the executive authority , together with the other members of the Cabinet , by- 
indemnifying the state , or any person , in respect of any unlawful act ;   indemnifying the state , or any person , in respect of any unlawful act ;   indemnifying the state , or any person , in respect of any unlawful act ; 
is consistent with the Republics obligations under international law applicable to states of emergency ;   is consistent with the Republics obligations under international law applicable to states of emergency ;   is consistent with the Republics obligations under international law applicable to states of emergency ; 
The executive authority of the Republic is vested in the President .   The executive authority of the Republic is vested in the President .   The executive authority of the Republic is vested in the President . 
and for no more than 21 days from the date of the declaration , unless the National Assembly resolves to extend the declaration .   and for no more than 21 days from the date of the declaration , unless the National Assembly resolves to extend the declaration . 
Cabinet members , members of the National Assembly and delegates to the National Council of Provinces   Cabinet members , members of the National Assembly and delegates to the National Council of Provinces 
any extension of a declaration of a state of emergency ;   any extension of a declaration of a state of emergency ;   any extension of a declaration of a state of emergency ; 
a declaration of a state of emergency ;   a declaration of a state of emergency ;   a declaration of a state of emergency ; 
and less restrictive means to achieve the purpose .   and less restrictive means to achieve the purpose .   and less restrictive means to achieve the purpose . 
The National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces must establish a joint rules committee to make rules and orders concerning the joint business of the Assembly and Council , including rules and orders-   The National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces must establish a joint rules committee to make rules and orders concerning the joint business of the Assembly and Council , including rules and orders- 
A state of emergency may be declared only in terms of an Act of Parliament , and only when-   A state of emergency may be declared only in terms of an Act of Parliament , and only when-   A state of emergency may be declared only in terms of an Act of Parliament , and only when- 
No person may hold office as President for more than two terms , but when a person is elected to fill a vacancy in the office of President ,   No person may hold office as President for more than two terms , but when a person is elected to fill a vacancy in the office of President , 
to determine procedures to facilitate the legislative process , including setting a time limit for completing any step in the process ; 
to determine procedures to facilitate the legislative process , including setting a time limit for completing any step in the process ;   to determine procedures to facilitate the legislative process , including setting a time limit for completing any step in the process ; 
Limitation of rights   Limitation of rights   Limitation of rights 
the relation between the limitation and its purpose ;   the relation between the limitation and its purpose ;   the relation between the limitation and its purpose ; 
and the declaration is necessary to restore peace and order .   and the declaration is necessary to restore peace and order .   and the declaration is necessary to restore peace and order . 
When elected President , a person ceases to be a member of the National Assembly and , within five days ,   When elected President , a person ceases to be a member of the National Assembly and , within five days ,   When elected President , a person ceases to be a member of the National Assembly and , within five days , 
or any legislation enacted , or other action taken , in consequence of a declaration of a state of emergency .   or any legislation enacted , or other action taken , in consequence of a declaration of a state of emergency .   or any legislation enacted , or other action taken , in consequence of a declaration of a state of emergency . 
When exercising its legislative authority ; 
Parliament is bound only by the Constitution , and must act in accordance with , and within the limits of , the Constitution . 
the nature of the right ;   the nature of the right ;   the nature of the right ; 
the period between that election and the next election of a President is not regarded as a term .   the period between that election and the next election of a President is not regarded as a term .   the period between that election and the next election of a President is not regarded as a term . 
Any competent court may decide on the validity of-   Any competent court may decide on the validity of-   Any competent court may decide on the validity of- 
the nature and extent of the limitation ;   the nature and extent of the limitation ;   the nature and extent of the limitation ; 
Table of nonderogable Rights   Table of nonderogable Rights   Table of nonderogable Rights 
Executive authority of the Republic   Executive authority of the Republic   Executive authority of the Republic 
and justifiable in an open and democratic society based on human dignity , equality and freedom , taking into account all relevant factors , including-   and justifiable in an open and democratic society based on human dignity , equality and freedom , taking into account all relevant factors , including- 
and is published in the national Government Gazette as soon as reasonably possible after being enacted .   and is published in the national Government Gazette as soon as reasonably possible after being enacted .   and is published in the national Government Gazette as soon as reasonably possible after being enacted . 
the Mediation Committee ; 
and to regulate the business of- 
or has legal consequences . 
The President by proclamation may transfer to a member of the Cabinet- 
or use their position or any information entrusted to them , to enrich themselves or improperly benefit any other person . 
The President must appoint a member of the Cabinet to be the leader of government business in the National Assembly . 
maintain economic unity ; 
Cabinet 
the administration of any legislation entrusted to another member ; 
and the Council must , while the intervention continues , review the intervention regularly and may make any appropriate recommendations to the national executive . 
may select any number of Ministers from among the members of the National Assembly ; 
Conduct of Cabinet members and Deputy Ministers 
A written decision by the President must be countersigned by another Cabinet member if that decision concerns a function assigned to that other Cabinet member . 
Members of the Cabinet and Deputy Ministers must act in accordance with a code of ethics prescribed by national legislation . 
A Cabinet member may assign any power or function that is to be exercised or performed in terms of an Act of Parliament to a member of a provincial Executive Council or to a Municipal Council . 
Transfer of functions 
Before the Deputy President , Ministers and any Deputy Ministers begin to perform their functions , they must swear or affirm faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 . 
undertake any other paid work ; 
any number of Deputy Ministers from among the members of the National Assembly ; 
and may select no more than two Ministers from outside the Assembly . 
Oath or affirmation 
National intervention in provincial administration 
Members of the Cabinet must- 
A decision by the President must be in writing if it- 
Accountability and responsibilities 
is taken in terms of legislation ; 
or prevent that province from taking unreasonable action that is prejudicial to the interests of another province or to the country as a whole . 
The President appoints the Deputy President and Ministers , assigns their powers and functions , and may dismiss them . 
Before assuming the responsibilities , powers and functions of the President , 
An Acting President has the responsibilities , powers and functions of the 
and approved by Parliament . 
Members of the Cabinet and Deputy Ministers may not- 
President and Ministers . 
If the National Assembly , by a vote supported by a majority of its members , passes a motion of no confidence in the Cabinet excluding the President , the President must reconstitute the Cabinet . 
Continuation of Cabinet offer elections 
Temporary assignment of functions 
the Acting President must swear or affirm faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 . 
must select the Deputy President from among the members of the National Assembly ; 
When a province cannot or does not fulfil an executive obligation in terms of the Constitution or legislation , the national executive may intervene by taking any appropriate steps to ensure fulfilment of that obligation , including- 
National legislation may specify the manner in which , and the extent to which , instruments mentioned in subsection must be- 
When an election of the National Assembly is held , the Cabinet , the Deputy President , Ministers and any Deputy Ministers remain competent to function until the person elected President by the next Assembly assumes office . 
or any power or function entrusted by legislation to another member . 
maintain essential national standards or meet established minimum standards for the rendering of a service ; 
The Cabinet consists of the President , as head of the Cabinet , a Deputy 
Assignment of functions 
President . 
issuing a directive to the provincial executive , describing the extent of the failure to fulfil its obligations and stating any steps required to meet its obligations ; 
If the National Assembly , by a vote supported by a majority of its members , passes a motion of no confidence in the President , 
and provide Parliament with full and regular reports concerning matters under their control . 
maintain national security ; 
and assuming responsibility for the relevant obligation in that province to the extent necessary to- 
Proclamations , regulations and other instruments of subordinate legislation must be accessible to the public . 
the intervention must end if the Council disapproves the intervention within 180 days after the intervention began or by the end of that period has not approved the intervention ; 
CHAPTER 6 
must be consistent with the Act of Parliament in terms of which the relevant power or function is exercised or performed ; 
act in any way that is inconsistent with their office , or expose themselves to any situation involving the risk of a conflict between their official responsibilities and private interests ; 
The President may assign to a Cabinet member any power or function of another member who is absent from office or is unable to exercise that power or perform that function . 
The President may appoint- 
The Deputy President and Ministers are responsible for the powers and functions of the executive assigned to them by the President . 
act in accordance with the Constitution ; 
The Deputy President must assist the President in the execution of the functions of government . 
and may dismiss them . 
If the national executive intervenes in a province in terms of subsection it must submit a written notice of the intervention to the National Council of Provinces within 14 days after the intervention began ; 
must be in terms of an agreement between the relevant Cabinet member and the Executive Council member or Municipal Council ; 
Members of the Cabinet are accountable collectively and individually to Parliament for the exercise of their powers and the performance of their functions . 
the President and the other members of the Cabinet and any Deputy Ministers must resign . 
and takes effect upon proclamation by the President . 
Sittings and recess periods 
but no one may be regarded as having been sentenced until an appeal against the conviction or sentence has been determined , or until the time for an appeal has expired . 
either in the Republic , or outside the Republic if the conduct constituting the offence would have been an offence in the Republic , 
Oath or affirmation 
ceases to be eligible ; 
A provincial legislature may determine the time and duration of its other sittings and its recess periods . 
members of the National Assembly , permanent delegates to the National Council of Provinces or members of a Municipal Council ; 
An Acting Premier must dissolve the provincial legislature if- 
the Premier and other members of the Executive Council of a province ; 
A person who is not eligible to be a member of a provincial legislature in terms of subsection or may be a candidate for the legislature , subject to any limits or conditions established by national legislation . 
is absent from the legislature without permission in circumstances for which the rules and orders of the legislature prescribe loss of membership ; 
A provincial legislature remains competent to function from the time it is dissolved or its term expires , until the day before the first day of polling for the next legislature . 
Duration of provincial legislatures 
Before members of a provincial legislature begin to perform their functions in the legislature , they must swear or affirm faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 . 
the legislature has adopted a resolution to dissolve with a supporting vote of a majority of its members ; 
and the legislature fails to elect a new Premier within 30 days after the vacancy occurred . 
If a provincial legislature is dissolved in terms of section 109 , or when its term expires , the Premier of the province , by proclamation , must call and set dates for an election , 
If the result of an election of a provincial legislature is not declared within the period referred to in section 190 , or if an election is set aside by a court , 
anyone declared to be of unsound mind by a court of the Republic ; 
the President , by proclamation , must call and set dates for another election , which must be held within 90 days of the expiry of that period or 
anyone who is appointed by , or is in the service of , the state and receives remuneration for that appointment or service , other than- 
After an election , the first sitting of a provincial legislature must take place at a time and on a date determined by a judge designated by the Chief Justice , 
of the date on which the election was set aside . 
The Premier of a province must dissolve the provincial legislature if- 
which must be held within 90 days of the date the legislature was dissolved or its term expired. 
or anyone who , after this section took effect , is convicted of an offence and sentenced to more than 12 months imprisonment without the option of a fine , 
there is a vacancy in the office of Premier ; 
A provincial legislature may determine where it ordinarily will sit . 
Dissolution of provincial legislatures before expiry of term 
Vacancies in a provincial legislature must be filled in terms of national legislation . 
A provincial legislature is elected for a term of five years . 
and three years have passed since the legislature was elected . 
The Premier of a province may summon the provincial legislature to an extraordinary sitting at any time to conduct special business . 
Every citizen who is qualified to vote for the National Assembly is eligible to be a member of a provincial legislature , except- 
unrehabilitated insolvents ; 
and other office-bearers whose functions are compatible with the functions of a member of a provincial legislature , and have been declared compatible with those functions by national legislation ; 
but not more than 14 days after the election result has been declared . 
A person loses membership of a provincial legislature if that person- 
Legislative authority of provinces 
any matter within a functional area listed in Schedule 4 ; 
A provincial legislature is bound only by the Constitution and , if it has passed a constitution for its province , also by that constitution , 
Provincial Legislatures 
any matter within a functional area listed in Schedule 5 ; 
to pass legislation for its province with regard to- 
and must act in accordance with , and within the limits of , the Constitution and that provincial constitution . 
The legislature of a province , by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote of at least two thirds of its members , may request Parliament to change the name of that province . 
provides for a minimum voting age of 18 years ; 
a provincial legislature consists of women and men elected as members in terms of an electoral system that- 
is for all purposes legislation with regard to a matter listed in Schedule 4 . 
Provincial legislation with regard to a matter that is reasonably necessary for , or incidental to , the effective exercise of a power concerning any matter listed m Schedule 4 , 
and any matter for which a provision of the Constitution envisages the enactment of provincial legislation ; 
is based on that provinces segment of the national common voters roll ; 
A provincial legislature may recommend to the National Assembly legislation concerning any matter outside the authority of that legislature , or in respect of which an Act of Parliament prevails over a provincial law . 
to pass a constitution for its province or to amend any constitution passed by it in terms of sections 142 and 143 ; 
Composition and election of provincial legislatures 
The legislative authority of a province is vested in its provincial legislature , and confers on the provincial legislature the power- 
any matter outside those functional areas , and that is expressly assigned to the province by national legislation ; 
is prescribed by national legislation ; 
and results , in general , in proportional representation . 
and to assign any of its legislative powers to a Municipal Council in that province . 
The Constitutional Court may order that all or part of an Act that is the subject of an application in terms of subsection has no force until the Court has decided the application if- 
Assignment of functions 
Salaries , allowances and benefits payable to members of a provincial legislature are a direct charge against the Provincial Revenue Fund. 
A provincial legislature may not exclude the public , including the media , from a sitting of a committee unless it is reasonable and justifiable to do so in an open and democratic society . 
to regulate public access , including access of the media , to the legislature and its committees ; 
The national legislation is necessary for- 
The signed copy of a provincial that Act and , after publication , must be safekeeping . 
National legislation may regulate the implementation of this section , including the processes established by this section . 
The Speaker , until the legislature designates one of its other members . 
appropriates money ; 
The text assented to and signed by the Premier must be published in the national Government Gazette and takes effect on publication or on a later date determined in terms of that constitution or amendment . 
and provide the legislature with full and regular reports concerning matters under their control . 
the maintenance of national security ; 
Adoption of provincial constitutions 
or function that is to be exercised or performed in terms of an Act of Parliament or a provincial Act , to a Municipal Council . 
Powers and functions of Premiers 
Evidence or information before provincial legislatures 
An Acting Premier has the responsibilities , powers and functions of the 
facilitate public involvement in the legislative and other processes of the legislature and its committees ; 
Status of legislation that does not prevail 
When there is a dispute concerning whether national legislation is necessary for a purpose set out in subsection and that dispute comes before a court for resolution , 
preparing and initiating provincial legislation ; 
A judge designated by the Chief Justice must preside over the election of a Speaker . 
A Premier-elect must assume office within five days of being elected , by swearing or affirming faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 . 
A provincial Act must provide for a procedure by which the provinces legislature may amend a money Bill . 
undertake any other paid work ; 
The procedure set out in Part A of Schedule 3 applies to the election of Speakers and Deputy Speakers . 
Provincial Constitutions 
referring a Bill back to the provincial legislature for reconsideration of the Bills constitutionality ; 
Members of the Executive Council of a province must act in accordance with a code of ethics prescribed by national legislation . 
and approved by the provincial legislature . 
The national government , by legislative and other measures , must assist provinces to develop the administrative capacity required for the effective exercise of their powers and performance of their functions referred to in subsection . 
Council , and no fewer than five and no more than ten members appointed by the Premier from among the members of the provincial legislature . 
outside the area of provincial competence in terms of Schedules 4 and 5 ; 
Continuation of Executive Councils after elections 
Provincial Executives 
The rules and orders of a provincial legislature must provide for- 
Members of a provincial legislature may apply to the Constitutional Court for an order declaring that all or part of a provincial Act is unconstitutional . 
The Premier of a province is responsible for- 
The national legislation deals with a matter that , to be dealt with effectively , requires uniformity across the nation , and the national legislation provides that uniformity by establishing- 
Members of the Executive Council of a province must- 
or during a vacancy in the office of Premier , an office-bearer in the order below acts as the Premier : 
Signing , publication and safekeeping of provincial constitutions 
and any provincial organ of state . 
national legislative intervention in terms of section 44 , the national legislation prevails over the provision of the provincial constitution ; 
Temporary assignment of functions 
A decision by a court that legislation prevails over other legislation does not invalidate that other legislation , but that other legislation becomes inoperative for as long as the conflict remains . 
Powers of provincial legislatures 
and are not liable to civil or criminal proceedings , arrest , imprisonment or damages for- 
A law made in terms of an Act of Parliament or a provincial Act can prevail only if that law has been approved by the National Council of Provinces . 
the court must have due regard to the approval or the rejection of the legislation by the National Council of Provinces . 
and the recognition of the leader of the largest opposition party in the legislature , as the Leader of the Opposition . 
A provincial legislature may- 
An assignment- 
must cast a deciding vote when there is an equal number of votes on each side of a question ; 
anything that they have said in , produced before or submitted to the legislature or any of its committees ; 
In exercising its legislative power , a provincial legislature may- 
When a municipality cannot or does not fulfil an executive obligation in terms of the Constitution or legislation , the relevant provincial executive may intervene by taking any appropriate steps to ensure fulfilment of that obligation , including- 
and calling a referendum in the province in accordance with national legislation . 
imposes provincial taxes , levies , duties or surcharges ; 
A Bill is a money Bill if it- 
or has legal consequences . 
A provincial constitution , or constitutional amendment , must not be inconsistent with this Constitution , but may provide for- 
If an application is unsuccessful , and did not have a reasonable prospect of success , the Constitutional Court may order the applicants to pay costs . 
A provincial legislature or any of its committees may- 
If a provincial legislature , by a vote supported by a majority of its members , passes a motion of no confidence in the provinces Executive Council excluding the Premier , the Premier must reconstitute the Council . 
An application- 
Executive authority of provinces 
or outside the powers and functions conferred on the province by other sections of the Constitution . 
The Premier exercises the executive authority , together with the other members of the Executive Council , by- 
An election to fill a vacancy in the office of Premier must be held at a time and on a date determined by the Chief Justice , but not later than 30 days after the vacancy occurs . 
Assumption of office by Premiers 
A written decision by the Premier must be countersigned by another Executive Council member if that decision concerns a function assigned to that other member . 
Subject to section 100 , the implementation of provincial legislation in a province is an exclusive provincial executive power . 
a majority of the members of a provincial legislature must be present before a vote may be taken on a Bill or an amendment to a Bill ; 
The Premier of a province may assign to a member of the Executive Council any power or function of another member who is absent from office or is unable to exercise that power or perform that function . 
compel , in terms of provincial legislation or the rules and orders , any person or institution to comply with a summons or requirement in terms of paragraph or ; 
A member of the Executive Council designated by the other members of the Council . 
or refer it to the Constitutional Court for a decision on its constitutionality . 
administering in the province , national legislation outside the functional areas listed in Schedules 4 and 5 , the administration of which has been assigned to the provincial executive in terms of an Act of Parliament ; 
if the Premier has reservations about the constitutionality of the Bill , refer it back to the legislature for reconsideration . 
issuing a directive to the Municipal Council , describing the extent of the failure to fulfil its obligations and stating any steps required to meet its obligations ; 
The legislature of a province , by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote of at least two thirds of its members , may remove the Premier from office only on the grounds of- 
Anyone who has been removed from the office of Premier in terms of subsection or may not receive any benefits of that office , and may not serve in any public office . 
and to provide for the searching of any person and , where appropriate , the refusal of entry to , or the removal of , any person . 
have freedom of speech in the legislature and in its committees , subject to its rules and orders ; 
implementing provincial legislation in the province ; 
and to maintain oversight of- 
appointing commissions of inquiry ; 
but reasonable measures may be taken- 
or the protection of the environment . 
and takes effect upon proclamation by the Premier . 
Conflicting Laws Conflicts between national and provincial legislation 
Provincial legislation prevails over national legislation if subsection or does not apply . 
or impedes the implementation of national economic policy . 
The Premier by proclamation may transfer to a member of the Executive Council- 
This section applies to a conflict between national legislation and provincial legislation falling within a functional area listed in Schedule 4 . 
The Premier of a province must assent to and sign the text of a provincial constitution or constitutional amendment that has been certified by the Constitutional Court . 
the promotion of economic activities across provincial boundaries ; 
The members of the Executive Council of a province are responsible for the functions of the executive assigned to them by the Premier . 
that law must be considered for all purposes to have been approved by the Council . 
If the National Council of Provinces does not approve a law referred to in subsection , it must , within 30 days of its decision , 
the participation in the proceedings of the legislature and its committees of minority parties represented in the legislature , in a manner consistent with democracy ; 
and initiate or prepare legislation , except money Bills . 
or maintain economic unity ; 
Conflicts that cannot be resolved 
No text of a provincial constitution or constitutional amendment becomes law until the Constitutional Court has certified- 
and may not confer on the province any power or function that falls- 
and the provincial constitution , if a constitution has been passed for the province . 
A majority of the members of the legislature must be present when the resolution is adopted . 
The Executive Council of a province consists of the Premier , as head of the 
Members of a provincial legislature and the provinces permanent delegates to the National Council of Provinces- 
Public access to and involvement in provincial legislatures 
The Speaker presides over the election of a Deputy Speaker . 
Acting Premiers 
Proclamations , regulations and other instruments of subordinate legislation of a province must be accessible to the public . 
Internal arrangements , proceedings and procedures of provincial legislatures 
Application by members to Constitutional Court 
assent to and sign the Bill ; 
or inability to perform the functions of office . 
must be consistent with the Act in terms of which the relevant power or function is exercised or performed ; 
A Premiers term of office begins when the Premier assumes office and ends upon a vacancy occurring or when the person next elected Premier assumes office . 
Any dispute concerning the administrative capacity of a province in regard to any function must be referred to the National Council of Provinces for resolution within days of the date of the referral to the Council . 
or use their position or any information entrusted to them , to enrich themselves or improperly benefit any other person . 
Certification of provincial constitutions 
Safekeeping of provincial Acts 
Interpretation of conflicts 
must be supported by at least 20 per cent of the members of the legislature ; 
developing and implementing provincial policy ; 
a subordinate matter incidental to the appropriation of money ; 
The signed text of a provincial constitution or constitutional amendment is conclusive evidence of its provisions and , after publication , must be entrusted to the Constitutional Court for safekeeping . 
If , after reconsideration , a Bill fully accommodates the Premiers reservations , the Premier must assent to and sign the Bill ; 
The Premier of a province has the powers and functions entrusted to that office by the Constitution and any legislation . 
If the Constitutional Court decides that the Bill is constitutional , the Premier must assent to and ; 
The provincial executive must act in accordance with- 
Members of the Executive Council of a province are accountable collectively and individually to the legislature for the exercise of their powers and the performance of their functions . 
or anything revealed as a result of anything that they have said in , produced before or submitted to the legislature or any of its committees . 
every court must prefer any reasonable interpretation of the legislation or constitution that avoids a conflict , over any alternative interpretation that results in a conflict . 
must be in terms of an agreement between the relevant Executive Council member and the Municipal Council ; 
and all questions before a provincial legislature are decided by a majority of the votes cast . 
Only members of the Executive Council of a province or a committee or member of a provincial legislature may introduce a Bill in the legislature ; 
assenting to and signing Bills ; 
must comply with the values in section 1 and with Chapter 3 ; 
a matter concerning which this Constitution specifically requires or envisages the enactment of national legislation , the national legislation prevails over the affected provision of the provincial constitution ; 
A provincial legislature may remove its Speaker or Deputy Speaker from office by resolution . 
and must be made within 30 days of the date on which the Premier assented to and signed the Act . 
and receive petitions , representations or submissions from any interested persons or institutions . 
norms and standards ; 
A province has executive authority in terms of subsection only to the extent that the province has the administrative capacity to assume effective responsibility . 
Premier . 
and may cast a deliberative vote when a question must be decided with a supporting vote of at least two thirds of the members of the legislature . 
the promotion of equal opportunity or equal access to government services ; 
summoning the legislature to an extraordinary sitting to conduct special business ; 
The procedure set out in Part A of Schedule 3 applies to the election of the Premier . 
When the Premier is absent or otherwise unable to fulfil the duties of the office of Premier , 
The Premier of a province must either assent to and sign a Bill passed by the provincial legislature in terms of this Chapter or , 
A provincial legislature may pass a constitution for the province or , where applicable , amend its constitution , if at least two thirds of its members vote in favour of the Bill . 
Provincial intervention in local government 
and performing any other function assigned to the provincial executive in terms of the Constitution or an Act of Parliament . 
No person may hold office as Premier for more than two terms , but when a person is elected to fill a vacancy in the office of Premier , 
Speakers and Deputy Speakers 
If the National Council of Provinces does not reach a decision within 30 days of its first sitting after a law was referred to it , 
financial and administrative assistance to each party represented in the legislature , in proportion to its representation , to enable the party and its leader to perform their functions in the legislature effectively ; 
the exercise of provincial executive authority in the province , including the implementation of legislation ; 
The member presiding at a meeting of a provincial legislature has no deliberative vote , but- 
National legislation that applies uniformly with regard to the country as a whole prevails over provincial legislation if any of the following conditions is met : 
Oath or affirmation 
maintain essential national standards or meet established minimum standards for the rendering of a service ; 
but only the member of the Executive Council who is responsible for financial matters in the province may introduce a money Bill in the legislature . 
Other privileges and immunities of a provincial legislature and its members may be prescribed by national legislation . 
assuming responsibility for the relevant obligation in that municipality to the extent necessary to- 
A provincial legislature must- 
referring a Bill to the Constitutional Court for a decision on the Bills constitutionality ; 
require any person or provincial institution to report to it ; 
Provincial legislation may specify the manner in which , and the extent to which , instruments mentioned in subsection must be- 
A provinces permanent delegates to the National Council of Provinces may attend , and may speak in , their provincial legislature and its committees , but may not vote . 
the imposition , abolition or reduction of provincial taxes , levies , duties or surcharges ; 
Before assuming the responsibilities , powers and functions of the Premier , the Acting Premier must swear or affirm faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 . 
or the institution , role , authority and status of a traditional monarch , where applicable . 
and the application has a reasonable prospect of success . 
A judge designated by the Chief Justice must preside over the election of the Premier . 
Publication of provincial Acts 
and , if a provincial constitution has been passed for the province , also that constitution ; 
National legislation prevails over provincial legislation if the national legislation is aimed at preventing unreasonable action by a province that- 
A money Bill may not deal with any other matter except- 
or a matter within a functional area listed in Schedule 4 , section 146 applies as if the affected provision of the provincial constitution were provincial legislation referred to in that section . 
the maintenance of economic unity ; 
The executive authority of a province is vested in the Premier of that province . 
at least one third of the members must be present before a vote may be taken on any other question before the legislature ; 
When an election of a provincial legislature is held , the Executive Council and its members remain competent to function until the person elected Premier by the next legislature assumes office . 
A member of the Executive Council designated by the Premier . 
that the text has been passed in accordance with section 142 ; 
and conduct its business in an open manner , and hold its sittings , and those of its committees , in public , 
or national policies . 
act in any way that is inconsistent with their office , or expose themselves to any situation involving the risk of a conflict between their official responsibilities and private interests ; 
Permanent delegates rights in provincial legislatures 
Accountability and responsibilities 
If there is a conflict between national legislation and a provision of a provincial constitution with regard to- 
to ensure that all provincial executive organs of state in the province are accountable to it ; 
determine and control its internal arrangements , proceedings and procedures ; 
A member of the Executive Council of a province may assign any power 
National legislation referred to in section 44 prevails over provincial legislation in respect of matters within the functional areas listed in Schedule 5 . 
Before members of the Executive Council of a province begin to perform their functions , they must swear or affirm faithfulness to the Republic and obedience to the Constitution , in accordance with Schedule 2 . 
a serious violation of the Constitution or the law ; 
consider , pass , amend or reject any Bill before the legislature ; 
the protection of the common market in respect of the mobility of goods , services , capital and labour ; 
If a provincial legislature has passed or amended a constitution , the Speaker of the legislature must submit the text of the constitution or constitutional amendment to the Constitutional Court for certification . 
is prejudicial to the economic , health or security interests of another province or the country as a whole ; 
the period between that election and the next election of a Premier is not regarded as a term . 
Provisions included in a provincial constitution or constitutional amendment in terms of paragraph or of subsection - 
Term of office and removal of Premiers 
and that the whole text complies with section 143 . 
The Premier of a province appoints the members of the Executive Council , assigns their powers and functions , and may dismiss them . 
At its first sitting after its election , and whenever necessary to fill a vacancy , a provincial legislature must elect a woman or a man from among its members to be the Premier of the province . 
the national executive must intervene in terms of subsection or in the stead of the relevant provincial executive . 
Transfer of functions 
If a provincial executive intervenes in a municipality in terms of subsection 
act in accordance with the Constitution 
When considering an apparent conflict between national and provincial legislation , or between national legislation and a provincial constitution , 
Assent to Bills 
If a dispute concerning a conflict cannot be resolved by a court , the national legislation prevails over the provincial legislation or provincial constitution . 
co-ordinating the functions of the provincial administration and its departments ; 
the Premier and the other members of the Executive Council must resign . 
prevent that Municipal Council from taking unreasonable action that is prejudicial to the interests of another municipality or to the province as a whole ; 
If a provincial legislature , by a vote supported by a majority of its members , passes a motion of no confidence in the Premier , 
In terms of its rules and orders , a provincial legislature may elect from among its members other presiding officers to assist the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker . 
A decision by the Premier of a province must be in writing if it- 
or any power or function entrusted by legislation to another member . 
At the first sitting after its election , or when necessary to fill a vacancy , a provincial legislature must elect a Speaker and a Deputy Speaker from among its members . 
the administration of any legislation entrusted to another member ; 
implementing all national legislation within the functional areas listed in Schedule 4 or 5 except where the Constitution or an Act of Parliament provides otherwise ; 
summon any person to appear before it to give evidence on oath or affirmation , or to produce documents ; 
Members of the Executive Council of a province may not- 
forward reasons for not approving the law to the authority that referred the law to it . 
The national legislation deals with a matter that cannot be regulated effectively by legislation enacted by the respective provinces individually . 
A provincial legislature must provide for mechanisms- 
is taken in terms of legislation ; 
The legislature may require a permanent delegate to attend the legislature or its committees . 
and make rules and orders concerning its business , with due regard to representative and participatory democracy , accountability , transparency and public involvement . 
Contents of provincial constitutions 
A Bill assented to and signed by the Premier of a province becomes a provincial Act , must be published promptly and takes effect when published or on a date determined in terms of the Act . 
the establishment , composition , powers , functions , procedures and duration of its committees ; 
sign it . 
provincial legislative or executive structures and procedures that differ from those provided for in this Chapter ; 
Draft national or provincial legislation that affects the status , institutions , powers or functions of local government must be published for public comment before it is introduced in Parliament or a provincial legislature , 
that matter would most effectively be administered locally ; 
Composition and election of Municipal Councils 
or both members elected in accordance with paragraph and members appointed in accordance with subparagraph of this paragraph . 
Judicial authority 
A division of powers and functions between a category B municipality and a category C municipality may differ from the division of powers and functions between another category B municipality and that category C municipality . 
decide on the constitutionality of any parliamentary or provincial Bill , but may do so only in the circumstances anticipated in section 79 or 121 ; 
structure and manage its administration and budgeting and planning processes to give priority to the basic needs of the community , and to promote the social and economic development of the community ; 
any constitutional matter except a matter that- 
must be in accordance with national legislation , which must prescribe a system- 
A municipality has the right to govern , on its own initiative , the local government affairs of its community , subject to national and provincial legislation , as provided for in the Constitution . 
Deputy Chief Justice and nine other judges . 
LOCAL GOVERNMENT 
The legislation referred to in subsection must take into account the need to provide municipal services in an equitable and sustainable manner . 
decide applications envisaged in section 80 or 122 ; 
The courts are- 
anyone who is appointed by , or is in the service of , the state in another sphere , and receives remuneration for that appointment or service , 
to ensure the provision of services to communities in a sustainable manner ; 
The Supreme Court of Appeal may decide appeals in any matter . 
Provincial legislation must determine the different types of municipality to be established in the province . 
to promote social and economic development ; 
establish criteria and procedures for the determination of municipal boundaries by an independent authority ; 
The Constitutional Court makes the final decision whether an Act of Parliament , a provincial Act or conduct of the President is constitutional , 
and any other matter assigned to it by national or provincial legislation . 
or certify a provincial constitution in terms of section 144 . 
a Municipal Council consists of- 
members appointed by other Municipal Councils to represent those other Councils ; 
in a manner that allows organised local government , municipalities and other interested persons an opportunity to make representations with regard to the draft legislation . 
The election of members to a Municipal Council as anticipated in subsection 
anyone who is disqualified from voting for the National Assembly or is disqualified in terms of section 47 , or from being a member of the Assembly ; 
to bring a matter directly to the Constitutional Court ; 
The courts are independent and subject only to the Constitution and the law , which they must apply impartially and without fear , favour or prejudice . 
or a member of another Municipal Council ; 
A matter before the Supreme Court of Appeal must be decided by the number of judges determined in terms of an Act of Parliament . 
Organs of state , through legislative and other measures , must assist and protect the courts to ensure the independence , impartiality , dignity , accessibility and effectiveness of the courts . 
and who has not been exempted from this disqualification in terms of national legislation ; 
decide on the constitutionality of any amendment to the Constitution ; 
members elected in accordance with subsections and ; 
or is assigned by an Act of Parliament to another court of a status similar to a High Court ; 
The Constitutional Court consists of the Chief Justice of South Africa , the 
The national government and provincial governments must assign to a municipality , by agreement and subject to any conditions , 
anyone who is appointed by , or is in the service of , the municipality and receives remuneration for that appointment or service , 
provide for the monitoring and support of local government in the province ; 
National legislation must- 
The national or a provincial government may not compromise or impede a municipalitys ability or right to exercise its powers or perform its functions . 
Category A : A municipality that has exclusive municipal executive and legislative authority in its area . 
or to appeal directly to the Constitutional Court from any other court . 
or if provided for by national legislation- 
and any other matter not assigned to another court by an Act of Parliament . 
The national legislation referred to in subsection must establish a system that allows for parties and interests reflected within the Municipal Council making the appointment , 
A High Court may decide- 
A matter before the Constitutional Court must be heard by at least eight judges . 
The Constitutional Court- 
establish the criteria for determining when an area should have a single category A municipality or when it should have municipalities of both category B and category C ; 
the High Courts , including any high court of appeal that may be established by an Act of Parliament to hear appeals from High Courts ; 
Only the constitutional Court may- 
An electoral system in terms of subsection must result , in general , in proportional representation . 
National legislation or the rules of the Constitutional Court must allow a person , when it is in the interests of justice and with leave of the Constitutional Court- 
but this disqualification does not apply to a member of a Municipal Council representing that Council in another Municipal Council of a different category . 
The national government and provincial governments , by legislative and other measures , must support and strengthen the capacity of municipalities to manage their own affairs , to exercise their powers and to perform their functions . 
to be fairly represented in the Municipal Council to which the appointment is made . 
the local government matters listed in Part B of Schedule 4 and Part B of Schedule 5 ; 
Developmental duties of municipalities 
the administration of a matter listed in Part A of Schedule 4 or Part A of Schedule 5 which necessarily relates to local government , if- 
the Constitutional Court ; 
and to encourage the involvement of communities and community organisations in the matters of local government . 
is the highest court in all constitutional matters ; 
The Supreme Court of Appeal consists of a President , a Deputy President and the number of judges of appeal determined in terms an Act of Parliament . 
A person may vote in a municipality only if that person is registered on that municipalitys segment of the national common voters roll . 
and must confirm any order of invalidity made by the Supreme Court of Appeal , a High Court , or a court of similar status , before that order has any force . 
appeals ; 
Every citizen who is qualified to vote for a Municipal Council is eligible to be a member of that Council , except- 
decide that Parliament or the President has failed to fulfil a constitutional obligation ; 
and participate in national and provincial development programmes . 
and subject to section 229 , make provision for an appropriate division of powers and functions between municipalities when an area has municipalities of both category B and category C. 
decide disputes between organs of state in the national or provincial sphere concerning the constitutional status , powers or functions of any of those organs of state ; 
issues connected with appeals ; 
and any other court established or recognised in terms of an Act of Parliament , including any court of a status similar to either the High Courts or the Magistrates Courts . 
Judicial system 
Membership of Municipal Councils 
the Magistrates Courts ; 
the bylaw must be regarded as valid for as long as that legislation is inoperative . 
COURTS AND ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 
a member of the National Assembly , a delegate to the National Council of Provinces or a member of a provincial legislature ; 
No person or organ of state may interfere with the functioning of the courts . 
and makes the final decision whether a matter is a constitutional matter or whether an issue is connected with a decision on a constitutional matter . 
CHAPTER 7 
A municipality must strive , within its financial and administrative capacity , to achieve the objects set out in subsection . 
A municipality has executive authority in respect of , and has the right to administer- 
An order or decision issued by a court binds all persons to whom and organs of state to which it applies . 
in respect of matters listed in Schedules and 5 , by regulating the exercise by municipalities of their executive authority referred to in section 156 . 
It is the highest court of appeal except in constitutional matters , and may decide only- 
and the municipality has the capacity to administer it . 
Objects of local government 
the Supreme Court of Appeal ; 
The executive and legislative authority of a municipality is vested in its Municipal Council . 
only the Constitutional Court may decide ; 
or of proportional representation as described in paragraph combined with a system of ward representation based on that municipalitys segment of the national common voters roll . 
The judicial authority of the Republic is vested in the courts . 
Status of municipalities 
Terms of Municipal Councils 
Each provincial government must establish municipalities in its province in a manner consistent with the legislation enacted in terms of subsections and and , by legislative or other measures , must- 
A municipality must- 
Category B : A municipality that shares municipal executive and legislative authority in its area with a category C municipality within whose area it falls . 
The objects of local government are- 
A constitutional matter includes any issue involving the interpretation , protection or enforcement of the Constitution . 
Establishment of municipalities 
National legislation must define the different types of municipality that may be established within each category . 
The national government , subject to section 44 , and the provincial governments have the legislative and executive authority to see to the effective performance by municipalities of their functions 
and promote the development of local government capacity to enable municipalities to perform their functions and manage their own affairs . 
Subject to section 151 , a bylaw that conflicts with national or provincial legislation is invalid . 
The local sphere of government consists of municipalities , which must be established for the whole of the territory of the Republic . 
CHAPTER 8 
A person who is not eligible to be a member of a Municipal Council in terms of subsection , 
The term of a Municipal Council may be no more than five years , as determined by national legislation . 
may decide only constitutional matters , and issues connected with decisions on constitutional matters ; 
Powers and functions of municipalities 
If there is a conflict between a bylaw and national or provincial legislation that is inoperative because of a conflict referred to in section 149 , 
to provide democratic and accountable government for local communities ; 
A municipality may make and administer bylaws for the effective administration of the matters which it has the right to administer . 
Category C : A municipality that has municipal executive and legislative authority in an area that includes more than one municipality . 
Supreme Court of Appeal 
or may be a candidate for the Council , subject to any limits or conditions established by national legislation . 
and who has been disqualified from membership of a Municipal Council in terms of national legislation ; 
Municipalities in cooperative government 
A municipality has the right to exercise any power concerning a matter reasonably necessary for , or incidental to , the effective performance of its functions . 
to promote a safe and healthy environment ; 
Constitutional Court 
but this disqualification does not apply to a member of a Municipal Council representing local government in the National Council ; 
and any other matter that may be referred to it in circumstances defined by an Act of Parliament . 
There are the following categories of municipality : 
of proportional representation based on that municipalitys segment of the national common voters roll , and which provides for the election of members from lists of party candidates drawn up in a partys order of preference ; 
If the electoral system includes ward representation , the delimitation of wards must be done by an independent authority appointed in terms of , and operating according to , procedures and criteria prescribed by national legislation . 
and the establishment , composition , procedures , powers and functions of its committees . 
A majority of the members of a Municipal Council must be present before a vote may be taken on any matter . 
The passing of bylaws ; 
Other matters 
allows parties and interests reflected within the Council to be fairly represented ; 
all the members of the Council have been given reasonable notice ; 
consult with the national or a provincial government ; 
must elect its chairperson ; 
and participate in the process prescribed in the national legislation envisaged in section 221 . 
Provincial legislation within the framework of national legislation may provide for privileges and immunities of Municipal Councils and their members . 
the size of a Municipal Council ; 
whether Municipal Councils may elect an executive committee or any other committee ; 
Organised local government 
makes decisions concerning the exercise of all the powers and the performance of all the functions of the municipality ; 
All questions concerning matters mentioned in subsection are determined by a decision taken by a Municipal Council with a supporting vote of a majority of its members . 
National legislation may provide criteria for determining- 
Members of a Municipal Council are entitled to participate in its proceedings and those of its committees in a manner that- 
and may be regulated by national legislation . 
only when it is reasonable to do so having regard to the nature of the business being transacted . 
A Municipal Council may make bylaws which prescribe rules and orders for- 
A provincial official gazette must publish a municipal bylaw upon request by the municipality . 
Any matter concerning local government not dealt with in the Constitution may be prescribed by national legislation or by provincial legislation within the framework of national legislation . 
Municipal bylaws must be accessible to the public . 
may elect an executive committee and other committees , subject to national legislation ; 
the approval of budgets ; 
or the size of the executive committee or any other committee of a Municipal Council . 
No bylaw may be passed by a Municipal Council unless- 
and the raising of loans . 
Publication of municipal bylaws 
designate representatives to participate in the National Council of Provinces ; 
is consistent with democracy ; 
A Municipal Council must conduct its business in an open manner , and may close its sittings , or those of its committees , 
its business and proceedings ; 
A municipal bylaw may be enforced only after it has been published in the official gazette of the relevant province . 
and the proposed bylaw has been published for public comment . 
The following functions may not be delegated by a Municipal Council : 
provide for the recognition of national and provincial organisations representing municipalities ; 
and may employ personnel that are necessary for the effective performance of its functions . 
and determine procedures by which local government may- 
All other questions before a Municipal Council are decided by a majority of the votes cast . 
A Municipal Council- 
the imposition of rates and other taxes , levies and duties ; 
its internal arrangements ; 
An Act of Parliament enacted in accordance with the procedure established by section 76 must- 
Internal procedures 
but when it considers any matter except the appointment of a judge , it must sit without the members designated in terms of subsection and . 
The South African Human Rights Commission . 
The Commission for Gender Equality must promote respect for gender equality and the protection , development and attainment of gender equality . 
The Auditor-General must audit and report on the accounts , financial statements and financial management of- 
Commission for Gender Equality 187 Functions of Commission for Gender Equality 
The Commission has the additional powers and functions prescribed by national legislation . 
The President , on the recommendation of the National Assembly , must appoint the Public Protector , the Auditor-General and the members of- 
or attorneys profession in terms of subsection or equals the number of vacancies to be filled , the President must appoint them . 
Other members who were designated or nominated to the Commission serve until they are replaced by those who designated or nominated them . 
be broadly representative of the main cultural , religious and linguistic communities in South Africa ; 
are appropriately qualified ; 
There is a Judicial Service Commission consisting of- 
Judicial Service Commission 
promote respect for human rights and a culture of human rights ; 
an order limiting the retrospective effect of the declaration of invalidity ; 
or any institution that is authorised in terms of any law to receive money for a public purpose . 
and an order suspending the declaration of invalidity for any period and on any conditions , to allow the competent authority to correct the defect . 
The Cabinet member responsible for the administration of justice must appoint acting judges to other courts after consulting the senior judge of the court on which the acting judge will serve . 
and declare the results of those elections within a period that must be prescribed by national legislation and that is as short as reasonably possible . 
National legislation may provide for any matter concerning the administration of justice that is not dealt with in the Constitution , including- 
All courts function in terms of national legislation , and their rules and procedures must be provided for in terms of national legislation . 
, or disciplinary steps against , these judicial officers take place without favour or prejudice . 
and are responsible for prosecutions in specific jurisdictions , subject to subsection . 
The Judicial Service Commission may advise the national government on any matter relating to the judiciary or the administration of justice , 
In addition to the duties prescribed in subsection , and subject to any legislation , the Auditor-General may audit and report on the accounts , financial statements and financial management of- 
to take steps to secure appropriate redress where human rights have been violated ; 
The need for a Commission established by this Chapter to reflect broadly the race and gender composition of South Africa must be considered when members are appointed . 
National legislation must provide for the referral of an order of constitutional invalidity to the Constitutional Court . 
The Judicial Service Commission must supplement the list with further nominees and the President must make the remaining appointments from the supplemented list . 
Specialised knowledge of , or experience in , auditing , state finances and public administration must be given due regard in appointing the Auditor-General . 
The Public Protector is appointed for a nonrenewable period of seven years . 
Any other person or party whom the National Director considers to be relevant . 
promote the protection , development and attainment of human rights ; 
The Auditor-General . 
Any person to be appointed to the Constitutional Court must also be a South African citizen . 
A Constitutional Court judge holds office for a nonrenewable term of 12 years , or until he or she attains the age of 70 , 
or of a majority of the members of the Assembly , if the recommendation concerns the appointment of a member of a Commission . 
The Auditor-General must be a woman or a man who is a South African citizen and a fit and proper person to hold that office . 
a National Director of Public Prosecutions , who is the head of the prosecuting authority , and is appointed by the President , as head of the national executive ; 
or a member of a Commission must be adopted with a supporting vote of a majority of the members of the Assembly . 
The Judicial Service Commission may determine its own procedure , but decisions of the Commission must be supported by a majority of its members . 
and the National Assembly calls for that judge to be removed , by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote of at least two thirds of its members . 
pending a decision of the Constitutional Court on the validity of that Act or conduct . 
The Commission has the power , as regulated by national legislation , necessary to achieve its primary objects , including the 
ensure that those elections are free and fair ; 
A resolution of the National Assembly concerning the removal from office of- 
are fit and proper persons to hold the particular office ; 
General Provisions 
The Cabinet member responsible for the administration of justice must exercise final responsibility over the prosecuting authority . 
a provincial Act or any conduct of the President , but an order of constitutional invalidity has no force unless it is confirmed by the Constitutional Court . 
power to monitor , investigate , research , educate , lobby , advise and report on issues concerning gender equality . 
of at least 60 per cent of the members of the Assembly , if the recommendation concerns the appointment of the Public Protector or the Auditor-General ; 
are South African citizens ; 
The Public Protector . 
There is a single national prosecuting authority in the Republic , structured in terms of an Act of Parliament , and consisting of- 
and after taking representations within a period specified by the National Director of Public Prosecutions , from the following : 
and to recommend the establishment or recognition , in accordance with national legislation , of a cultural or other council or councils for a community or communities in South Africa . 
must appoint sufficient of the nominees to fill the vacancies , taking into account the need to ensure that those appointed represent the profession as a whole . 
Powers of courts in constitutional matters 
Other organs of state , through legislative and other measures , must assist and protect these institutions to ensure the independence , impartiality , dignity and effectiveness of these institutions . 
The number of members of the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural , Religious and Linguistic Communities and their appointment and terms of office must be prescribed by national legislation . 
training programmes for judicial officers ; 
At all times , at least four members of the Constitutional Court must be persons who were judges at the time they were appointed to the Constitutional Court . 
The appointment must be made on the recommendation of the Cabinet member responsible for the administration of justice acting with the concurrence of the Chief Justice . 
and the adoption by the Assembly of a resolution calling for that persons removal from office 
four persons designated by the President as head of the national executive , after consulting the leaders of all the parties in the National Assembly ; 
National legislation must ensure that the Directors of Public Prosecutions- 
nominated by a committee of the Assembly proportionally composed of members of all parties represented in the Assembly ; 
Other judicial officers must be appointed in terms of an Act of Parliament which must ensure that the appointment , promotion , transfer or dismissal of 
These institutions are independent , and subject only to the Constitution and the law , and they must be impartial and must exercise their powers and perform their functions without fear , favour or prejudice . 
The Public Protector , the Auditor-General or a member of a Commission established by this Chapter may be removed from office only on- 
Broadcasting Authority 
The Constitutional Court , Supreme Court of Appeal and High Courts have the inherent power to protect and regulate their own process , and to develop the common law , taking into account the interests of justice . 
CHAPTER 9 
The Electoral Commission has the additional powers and functions prescribed by national legislation . 
directly to the Constitutional Court to confirm or vary an order of constitutional invalidity by a court in terms of this subsection . 
must declare that any law or conduct that is inconsistent with the Constitution is invalid to the extent of its inconsistency ; 
The National Assembly must recommend persons- 
Prosecutions , prosecution policy , which must be observed in the prosecution process ; 
Composition of Electoral Commission 
Constitutional Court if there is a vacancy or if a judge is absent . 
The prosecuting authority has the power to institute criminal proceedings on behalf of the state , and to carry out any necessary functions incidental to instituting criminal proceedings . 
the Cabinet member responsible for the administration of justice , or an alternate designated by that Cabinet member ; 
The President must remove a judge from office upon adoption of a resolution calling for that judge to be removed . 
The Electoral Commission must- 
The President may appoint a woman or a man to be an acting judge of the 
The Public Protector has the additional powers and functions prescribed by national legislation . 
procedures for dealing with complaints about judicial officers ; 
any institution funded from the National Revenue Fund or a Provincial Revenue Fund or by a municipality ; 
The Commission for Gender Equality . 
two practising attorneys nominated from within the attorneys profession to represent the profession as a whole , and appointed by the President ; 
Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural , Religious and Linguistic Communities Functions of Commission 
manage elections of national , provincial and municipal legislative bodies in accordance with national legislation ; 
The complainant . 
Magistrates Courts and all other courts may decide any matter determined by an Act of Parliament , 
but a court of a status lower than a High Court may not enquire into or rule on the constitutionality of any legislation or any conduct of the President . 
The other judges of the Constitutional Court are appointed by the President , as head of the national executive , after consulting the Chief Justice and the leaders of parties represented in the National Assembly , 
The President as head of the national executive , after consulting the Judicial Service Commission and the leader of parties represented in the National Assembly , 
to carry out research ; 
The President may make appointments from the list , and must advise the Judicial Service Commission , with reasons , if any of the nominees are unacceptable and any appointment remains to be made . 
to promote and develop peace , friendship , humanity , tolerance and national unity among cultural , religious and linguistic communities , on the basis of equality , nondiscrimination and free association ; 
Auditor-General Functions of Auditor-General 
may intervene in the prosecution process when policy directives are not complied with ; 
The President must appoint the judges of all other courts on the advice of the Judicial Service Commission . 
Any appropriately qualified woman or man who is a fit and proper person may be appointed as a judicial officer . 
Each year , the South African Human Rights Commission must require relevant organs of state to provide the Commission with information on the 
and when considering matters relating to a specific High Court , the Judge President of that Court and the Premier of the province concerned , or an alternate designated by each of them . 
may suspend a person from office at any time after the start of the proceedings of a committee of the National Assembly for the removal of that person ; 
all municipalities ; 
and the Electoral Commission . 
The Electoral Commission . 
to investigate and to report on the observance of human rights ; 
A judge may be removed from office only if- 
Functions of Electoral Commission 
South African Human Rights Commission Functions of South African Human Rights Commission 
The Supreme Court of Appeal , a High Court or a court of similar status may make an order concerning the constitutional validity of an Act of Parliament , 
All reports must be made public . 
The salaries , allowances and benefits of judges may not be reduced . 
the Public Protector or the Auditor-General must be adopted with a supporting vote of at least two thirds of the members of the Assembly ; 
and to take appropriate remedial action . 
The Commission for Gender Equality has the power , as regulated by national legislation , necessary to perform its functions , including the 
to promote respect for the rights of cultural , religious and linguistic communities ; 
Removal 
When deciding a constitutional matter within its power , a court- 
Prosecuting authority 
two practising advocates nominated from within the advocates profession to represent the profession as a whole , and appointed by the President ; 
the Judicial Service Commission funds that the judge suffers from an incapacity , is grossly incompetent or is guilty of gross misconduct ; 
Electoral Commission 
National legislation must establish an independent authority to regulate broadcasting in the public interest , and to ensure fairness and a diversity of views broadly representing South African society . 
The Public Protector has the power , as regulated by national legislation- 
Chapter must be women or men who- 
the President of the Supreme Court of Appeal ; 
and must remove a person from office upon adoption by the Assembly of the resolution calling for that persons removal . 
The Commission may report any matter which falls within its powers and functions to the South African Human Rights Commission for investigation . 
four permanent delegates to the National Council of Provinces designated together by the Council with a supporting vote of at least six provinces ; 
The Commission for Gender Equality has the additional powers and functions prescribed by national legislation . 
The Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural , Religious and Linguistic Communities . 
and any other institution or accounting entity required by national or provincial legislation to be audited by the Auditor-General . 
The Auditor-General must be appointed for a fixed , non-renewable term of between five and ten years . 
These institutions are accountable to the National Assembly , and must report on their activities and the performance of their functions to the Assembly at least once a year . 
one Judge President designated by the Judges President ; 
The following state institutions strengthen constitutional democracy in the 
The Auditor-General has the additional powers and functions prescribed by national legislation . 
Any person or organ of state with a sufficient interest may appeal , or apply , 
and the participation of people other than judicial officers in court decisions . 
If the number of persons nominated from within the advocates 
and comply with any other requirements prescribed by national legislation . 
The primary objects of the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural , Religious and Linguistic Communities are- 
The South African Human Rights Commission has the additional powers and functions prescribed by national legislation . 
Acting judges 
measures that they have taken towards the realisation of the rights in the Bill of Rights concerning housing , health care , food , water , social security , education and the environment . 
The Electoral Commission must be composed of at least three persons . 
the ground of misconduct , incapacity or incompetence ; 
all national and provincial state departments and administrations ; 
A court which makes an order of constitutional invalidity may grant a temporary interdict or other temporary relief to a party , or may adjourn the proceedings , 
Appointment of judicial officers 
STATE INSTITUTIONS SUPPORTING CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY Establishment and governing principles 
The accused person . 
Magistrates Courts and other courts 
National legislation must ensure that the prosecuting authority exercises its functions without fear , favour or prejudice . 
The need for the judiciary to reflect broadly the racial and gender composition of South Africa must be considered when judicial officers are appointed . 
and may review a decision to prosecute or not to prosecute , after consulting the relevant Director of Public Prosecutions 
The National Director of Public Prosecutions- 
and approved by the Assembly by a resolution adopted with a supporting vote- 
to investigate any conduct in state affairs , or in the public administration in any sphere of government , that is alleged or suspected to be improper or to result in any impropriety or prejudice ; 
The involvement of civil society in the recommendation process may be provided for as envisaged in section 59 . 
power to monitor , investigate , research , educate , lobby , advise and report on issues concerning the rights of cultural , religious and linguistic communities . 
All other matters concerning the prosecuting authority must be determined by national legislation . 
must determine , with the concurrence of the Cabinet member responsible for the administration of justice , and after consulting the Directors of Public 
six persons designated by the National Assembly from among its members , at least three of whom must be members of opposition parties represented in the Assembly ; 
The South African Human Rights Commission has the powers , as regulated by national legislation , necessary to perform its functions , including the power- 
The Judicial Service Commission must prepare a list of nominees with three names more than the number of appointments to be made , and submit the list to the President . 
Removal from office 
The Judicial Service Commission has the powers and functions assigned to it in the Constitution and national legislation . 
Independent Authority to Regulate Broadcasting 
Before judicial officers begin to perform their functions , they must take an oath or affirm , in accordance with Schedule 2 , that they will uphold and protect the Constitution . 
one teacher of law designated by teachers of law at South African universities ; 
Other judges hold office until they are discharged from active service in terms of an Act of Parliament . 
and Directors of Public Prosecutions and prosecutors as determined by an Act of Parliament . 
The President , on the advice of the Judicial Service Commission , may suspend a judge who is the subject of a procedure in terms of subsection . 
The Auditor-General must submit audit reports to any legislature that has a direct interest in the audit , and to any other authority prescribed by national legislation . 
The Public Protector may not investigate court decisions . 
If the number of persons nominated exceeds the number of vacancies to be filled , the President , after consulting the relevant profession , 
The South African Human Rights Commission must- 
and monitor and assess the observance of human rights in the Republic . 
in accordance with the following procedure : 
Terms of office and remuneration 
appoints the Chief Justice and the Deputy Chief Justice and , after consulting the Judicial Service Commission , appoints the President and Deputy President of the Supreme Court of Appeal . 
No person or organ of state may interfere with the functioning of these institutions . 
the South African Human Rights Commission ; 
An report issued by the Public Protector must be open to the public unless exceptional circumstances , to be determined in terms of national legislation , require that a report be kept confidential . 
Appointments 
the Commission for Gender Equality ; 
and broadly reflect the gender composition of South Africa . 
to report on that conduct ; 
the Chief Justice , who presides at meetings of the Commission ; 
a finding to that effect by a committee of the National Assembly ; 
The Public Protector and the members of any Commission established by this 
The Public Protector must be accessible to all persons and communities . 
Other matters concerning administration of justice 
The number of members and their terms of office must be prescribed by national legislation . 
and may make any order that is just and equitable , including- 
1 Different from other brands 
2 Frequently changes and improves its products 
3 Is a brand for someone like me 
4 Is a brand I trust 
5 Is a popular brand 
6 Is affordable 
7 Is an expert in deodorants/antiperspirants 
8 Is an innovative brand 
9 Is cheaper than other brands 
10 Is economical to use 
11 Is more expensive than other brands 
12 Is worth paying more for 
13 Meets my needs  
14 Environmentally friendly 
15 Has an intense fragrance 
16 Is clinally-proven 
 Not harmful to my body 
17 Is for active people 
18 Is modern 
19 Is a product suited for men 
 Is a product suited for women 
20 Gives long lasting protection against body odour 
21 Keeps me feeling dry 
22 Kills germs/ bacteria 
23 Leaves no residue/ marks on my skin/ clothes 
24 Package looks attractive 
25 Makes me feel sophisticated/ cool 
26 Leaves me feeling fresh 
27 Is a high quality product 
28 Cares for my skin 
29 Suitable for everyday use 
30 Suitable for all kinds of situations 
31 Applies product evenly 
32 Makes me feel irresistible 
33 Makes me feel safe and secure 
34 Gives me a pleasant smell all day 
35 Works when I need it to 
36 Works naturally 
37 Does not irritate skin 
38 Is soothing to the skin 
39 Conditions skin 
40 Keeps skin looking young 
41 Can use on different parts of the body 
42 Cools me down 
43 Relaxes me 
44 Revitalizes me 
45 Has skin whitening effect 
1 Different from other brands 
2 Frequently changes and improves its products 
3 Is a brand for someone like me 
4 Is a brand I trust 
5 Is a popular brand 
6 Is affordable 
7 Is an expert in deodorants/antiperspirants 
8 Is an innovative brand 
9 Is cheaper than other brands 
10 Is economical to use 
11 Is more expensive than other brands 
12 Is worth paying more for 
13 Meets my needs  
14 Environmentally friendly 
15 Has an intense fragrance 
16 Is clinally-proven 
 Not harmful to my body 
17 Is for active people 
18 Is modern 
19 Is a product suited for men 
 Is a product suited for women 
20 Gives long lasting protection against body odour 
21 Keeps me feeling dry 
22 Kills germs/ bacteria 
23 Leaves no residue/ marks on my skin/ clothes 
24 Package looks attractive 
25 Makes me feel sophisticated/ cool 
26 Leaves me feeling fresh 
27 Is a high quality product 
28 Cares for my skin 
29 Suitable for everyday use 
30 Suitable for all kinds of situations 
31 Applies product evenly 
32 Makes me feel irresistible 
33 Makes me feel safe and secure 
34 Gives me a pleasant smell all day 
35 Works when I need it to 
36 Works naturally 
37 Does not irritate skin 
38 Is soothing to the skin 
39 Conditions skin 
40 Keeps skin looking young 
41 Can use on different parts of the body 
42 Cools me down 
43 Relaxes me 
44 Revitalizes me 
45 Has skin whitening effect 
Employers can only pay workers instead of granting annual leave when employment is terminated.
Investigation is still continuing and the remaining stolen phones still have to be retrieved.
And thirdly the principle of proportionality is never properly considered when the decision on violence is taken.
The United Nations is an essential instrument through which multilateral processes can be brought to contribute meaningfully to the solutions to the problems and challenges we all face today.
The Red Cross Children's Hospital Trust is synonymous with excellence in fundraising, high standards of integrity and transparency.
I didn't hear anything bad about me, so I've got absolutely nothing to say, but I did try and make prior arrangements that I'd be late.
President Comparore said discussions on the matter would continue through the African Union Peace and Security Council.
The objective of this visit will be mainly to discuss the current developments in the Comores as well as to prepare for Presidential elections.
We went into the yard; we proceeded to my room because they were not supposed to go into the main house which we called Parliament.
The processed data were edited to generate the final clean data set.
Overseas reports suggest that ammonium sulphate and urea are more efficient fertilisers on very wet or waterlogged soils.
Government recognises the important economic contribution made by the synthetic fuels industry in South Africa by providing a form of tariff protection to synthetic fuel manufacturers.
These will assist the nation to come to terms with the legacy of the colonial and apartheid systems, Genocide, Slavery, Wars of Resistance and the struggles for liberation.
It was highlighted during the committee meeting that the information required on the verification forms is a lot for the specified time frame.
The Premier also apologized in person to foreign nationals for their suffering at the hands of criminals.
During the survey month, the selected household was required to record all its acquisitions in a diary.
Apply an open-door policy in consulting with any customer within working hours.
The Artscape Resource Centre aims to engage young and emerging artists in an internship mentoring project in a variety of disciplines and around various aspects of the industry.
The true currency in a knowledge economy is the people who drive the research, development and the technology that yields new innovative products and services.
The implementation of the principles of an inclusive education system includes the transforming of the education system in order to address and reduce barriers to learning.
More-over, since the minority government was faced with a struggle for liberation, this issue dominated the question of security and, consequently, the activities of the statutory instruments that served it.
As representatives of millions of people who yearn for fundamental change and a better life, we should not lose this great opportunity.
A commissioner may at any time resign as commissioner by tendering his or her resignation in writing to the President.
Sir, I commend these constitutional changes for the consideration of the august House and pray that our new-found unity of purpose as Zimbabweans will endure, said the minister.
This housing project will entail the redevelopment of existing areas using primarily provincial housing subsidies.
A co-ordinated response in partnership with Namibia is the only solution to managing the demands of development.
Through information fromcommunity members, the suspects were arrested at their homesteads and some of the groceries were recovered.
It is with deep sorrow that I acknowledge my complicity as a white South African.
The new world will require us to be creative and innovative.
Communities should remain ever vigilant, making it forever impossible for anyone to manipulate their concerns and aspirations for criminal purposes.
Links to organisations not mentioned here are most welcome too.
Well the quantities that was mentioned in one of these documents which seemed to corroborate the volumes which we produced, which was not very large.
Addressing poverty and nutrition can happen at a multitude of levels - and one of those is through the provision of nutritional supplements and food parcels.
You can ask your local radio station to host a panel discussion or phone-in programme on the issue.
Africans appear to be more susceptible to the affects of anaesthetics and because we treat more Africans than whites, we would have to double our staff if we used anaesthetics.
We need to take steps to encourage peaceful, negotiated settlement of this conflict.
When they reached the soccer stadium they told her that they wanted sex with her as they had accompanied her all the way.
We were not nave when we commissioned the audit; we knew we were going to get resistance from some quarters.
Demand-side factors, such as relationships with existing customers, should be taken into account in respect of mineral beneficiation.
Mlaba encourages all able communities to similarly make use of our democracy and turn land to great fruition.
As the people are settling down, may I make a few announcements?
Carefully clean the condenser coils of the fridge regularly, these are typically located behind or underneath the fridge.
Mr President, please accept my congratulations to you on your assumption of the stewardship of this important Assembly.
We welcome you all very warmly to this hearing of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.
The language of tuition and communication can become a barrier to access or a factor contributing to failure.
'Union means the African Union established by the present Constitutive Act.
It is at the provincial level, that we really need that oversight, but we also need to support our provincial counterparts, who often come under an incredible pressure.
He was brave enoughto report the incident to his father and he pointed the accused out to the police.
Teachers were also served tea by the elderly from the Chicago Centre for the Aged.
It will be followed by a media tour of the fair where you will be given an opportunity to interview exhibitors and take photographs.
The veterinary surgeon is stationed at the veterinary clinic of the South African Police Service.
Disseminate information in an accessible format through formal and informal channels including communication media.
Ladies and gentlemen, you will agree with me that all these issues are prerequisite to ensure the provision of adequate and responsive services to victims of crime and violence.
I am deeply honoured and privileged to address you this evening as your President.
The Africa Union has also called for regional economic communities to establish such desks.
A student oriented organisation dedicated to the prevention of and awareness around issues of HIV and AIDS.
The two sides also agreed to strengthen co-operation to face up to non-traditional security issues.
Underlying the negative environmental trends is the fact that our high population growth is straining our limited natural resources.
Sheriffs can demand money and don't have to issue a receipt.
That economic growth is guided in a way that provides sustainable opportunities for all urban dwellers.
Nearly two hundred species of bird have been recorded, a large number being waterbirds.
If you want my personal opinion, I would say that I deny this categorically.
As part of government efforts to promote sustainable economic growth and boost the financial sector, a Namibian Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority has been created.
The suspect will appear in the Pretoria Magistrates' Court tomorrow and it is expected that the case will be transferred to Mussina.
According to the data released yesterday, retail trade sales increased in real terms.
So that is the first section on official culpability of psychologists which came subsequent to my previous submission.
Feeling depressed and or sad, and sometimes having thoughts of suicide.
The situation is exacerbated by fragmented service delivery, unresolved land tenure, a shortage of substantive information and a legacy of poor planning by previous governments.
He emphasised the importance of local data to support decisions on planning and resource allocation.
Contact the District Office closest to you to find out about the feeding schemes and Drop-In Centres in your area.
It is essential that social welfare service-providers are equipped with the skills and attitudes necessary to provide services in an appropriate and accountable manner.
Farmers have to rethink alternative crops to optimise scarce water resources in the area.
In this respect we continue to make inroads in protecting our most vulnerable possessions, our children.
While the first units are scheduled for hand-over in July this year, the entire project is to be completed by October.
It is a great honour for my delegation and I to be in this great country, amongst longstanding comrades and friends.
International relations has to be carried out in a world that has fundamentally changed in the last decade.
Compare tourism with other similarly defined industries to make its statistics more robust.
However, managers will have flexibility, within national guidelines, to determine competency grading, starting levels and performance-related rewards or bonuses.
Certain contractors are able to evade their obligations in terms of labour legislation.
Note that this has certainly been influenced by the trend in many businesses to outsource activities such as cleaning, security and business services.
The challenges of Africa are multi-dimensional and cannot be addressed in isolation, one from the other.
It is further focussed on those areas with the highest incidence of these crimes and seeks to stabilize crimes in these areas.
I have been informed that accessing these funds is not an easy and simple task.
The goal of this strategic objective is to consistently have a minimum of two beaches awarded Blue Flag status every season.
Mr Webster, your evidence is that you saw no security officials trying to control the crowd.
The reintroduction of school sport and making it compulsory is one example of our interventions.
This economic growth encompasses not only socio-economic developments, but also peace and stability.
I think that the nature of the power structure has to be taken into accounts.
Yes the dividing line may be a little bit blurred but let us accept that.
Separate mortality schedules for males and females are applied to each age group.
To ensure success, a fully integrated approach is needed which also addresses the hollowing needs.
President Motlanthe and his delegation will hold discussions with his Libyan counterpart within the context of strengthening bilateral political, economic and trade relations between the two countries.
We shall continue to keep up the pressure together with other countries to ensure trade that favours real development.
At the Beaufort West museum there will be family history workshops.
However, mitigation also plays a central role in the strategy.
Further, the music industry is a multimillion-rand industry that adds substantially towards our economy.
You will without a doubt give that extra needed safety to our people.
She occupies an important and critical position as one of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.
Reduce the heavy urban bias of public spending in Africa by transferring resources from urban to rural activities.
South Africa's security agencies say they have the manpower and the training to safeguard the Indian Premier League (IPL) and the upcoming General Elections.
He restated that the taxi operators would suffer no loss of profit or jobs.
Ensure that Preferential Procurement procedures set up by Government are carried out.
Increasing the capacity of the ablutions including both temporary and permanent structures is also being undertaken.
The negative effects include bedwetting, withdrawal, bad behaviour and difficulty concentrating at school.
Read labels carefully and tell your doctor and pharmacist about any medication you are taking.
Use this conference to commit your profession to go out there and liberate the commons, become true African organic intellectuals and committing yourselves to building our Earth Democracy.
The rate cut was seen in light of the current economic crisis crippling industries across the globe.
If my instruction was to use as little force as possible then I think the birdshot would be the one I would use.
Religious organisations, the business community, other community associations and municipalities throughout the country have been asked to support the Torches of Tolerance march.
A study was conducted to determine current best practices in some of the English-speaking countries.
Harming or contaminating the natural environment as a result of human activities, especially through household and chemical waste, e.g. substances, noise, dust, smells.
South Africa shares the international community's concern about the spread of nuclear weapons and strongly advocates the concept of a nuclear weapon-free world.
The master sample is drawn from the database of enumeration areas established during the demarcation phase of the population census.
You are not trying to say people fell from the top of the pavilion?
Volunteer at a community organisation, or work part- time to gain experience.
Ensure a broad partnership between all stakeholders including inter-sector collaboration.
Piped-gas currently makes up a small but growing percentage of South Africa's energy mix.
All co-ordination including emergency services, traffic management and communications will be run from there.
The Chief Directorate's purpose is to provide a comprehensive and coherent media and government liaison service.
The Quantity Surveying section is responsible for the budgeting and administration of costs of municipal building projects.
In-service training will be provided in the South African Police Service.
EThekwini Municipality's Emergency Services is pleased with the city's swift response to the earth tremors felt throughout the city early yesterday.
These systems of subsidy are not structured so as to recoup the investments that are made.
It means the deliberate destruction of national, racial, religious or ethnic Groups.
I can't say the address because the activities were happening around Soweto.
He appearedbefore the Mitchells Plain Magistrate's Courtandwas released in the care of his parents under stipulated conditions of the court.
There is a new theme monthly, except for December-January where there is a theme for the two month period.
On a social level and especially in the way of churches and in schools mobilisation was enforced, and said that no education was possible before political liberation.
Preparation for marriage and remarriage, family life enrichment, strengthening the relationship between partners, family life skills, and parenting programmes are critical to promoting the well-being of families.
This task is urgent because the unemployment crisis is acute amongst the unskilled and semi-skilled young unemployed.
Well, you say in your evidence at the trial that you were outraged by the suggestion.
Enquiries related to post-specific information should be forwarded to the relevant individual mentioned at each post.
That was one of the aspects that actually also I didn't like about making ecstasy because there was no threat anymore.
Rwanda has played a leading role in this by subscribing to the process and being one of the first countries to undergo the review.
Should they do so, the employer is obliged to keep this information confidential.
The municipalities play a key role in the management and delivery of projects, while the provincial administration assists in project monitoring and evaluation.
Are you then saying that they had a motive to implicate you or to lie to us?
The co-ordination of the Intelligence activities of the South African information community was co-ordinated by a body that was known as the Co-ordinating Intelligence Committee in short, CIC.
I bring you fraternal greetings from the South African government and the people of our country.
There are three broad treatment options for substance abuse, depending on the seriousness of the problem.
The hardware specifications will include specifications for the communication of results, as well as methods to solve problems that may arise at these sites.
The suspects then fled the scene with an undisclosed amount of money, as well as cell phones and cigarettes which they had stolen from the shop.
On behalf of the banks I'd like to say that we accept our ongoing responsibility and role in both regards.
He chairs the board of the Public Investment Corporation and is responsible for Financial Services Board.
Treatment for opportunistic infections, such as meningitis, oral thrush, TB and pneumonia, is available at public health care facilities irrespective of the person's HIV status.
Health should be viewed as a state of perfect spiritual, mental and physical wellbeing, not merely the absence of illness and infirmity.
Speaker, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, on your arrival here this morning you would have been struck by the prominence of a single word that greeted you: Activist.
Humanitarian aid has been waiting at the border for five days before it was finally cleared.
It makes sense that South African business, rather than competing with French business, should join forces with French companies.
Each bus in the distinctive fleet will be fitted with closed circuit TV cameras, both inside and on the outside, as will the bus stops.
However, the twentieth century saw the re-emergence of African writers, some, creative and others recording texts and events as well as conducting an analysis of society.
Three categories of pasture management are recognised for the purpose of extending advice on K fertilisation.
To say that this centre is doing very well is pure understatement.
It also ensured that a Forum was created to unblock obstacles that may arise in future.
In the event that what I have said has come across as a meaningless ramble, let me state what I have been saying more directly.
If you do not have the proper authority, you will not be able to login to the Secure Resource Section.
As the Earth's non-renewable resources are depleted, new sources must be found for developing materials of the future.
Children of smoking parents inhale the same amount of nicotine as if they themselves smoked the cigarette.
They were briefed by my department and organised agriculture on the areas affected and the influence on the regional economy.
The combination of these two factors should lead to three conclusions, at least.
The construction of the Cape Town Film Studios will finally commence.
South Africa is affected by this and we cannot prevent Zimbabweans from entering South Africa.
It is in that spirit that as Chair of the Non Aligned Movement we convened the Committee on Palestine here in South Africa last week.
One means of lowering inputs costs and improving the competitiveness of our economy is to improve the operation of energy markets.
It is ironic that countries that need this information the most have it in very limited amounts.
The time has arrived for us to defend the principles of the Movement and to reaffirm the Movement's role in, and contribution to, contemporary multilateral affairs.
This diversification results in greater robustness and enhanced ability to withstand shocks in different areas of the world economy.
Overcoming apartheid was truly a demonstration of the triumph of the human spirit.
Milk that you buy from grocery stores is pasteurised and packaged in an approved dairy plant.
You have not particularly dealt with this afterwards with any of your superiors or anyone else.
Buy-in by key stakeholders is required in planning and development proposals.
Tens, if not hundreds, of guns were missing from the control of Metropolitan Police.
Establishing certain fundamental principles aimed at safeguarding the integrity of World Heritage Sites and the sustained development of these sites.
You said you might be repetitive, you have made these points and I am sure we have all taken good note of them.
It was argued that there should be a balance between specialist courts and a proliferation of courts.
Fifteen credit cards wrapped inside a plastic folder and concealed inside a cupboard were found.
It was also a direct affront to the human dignity of every worker thus excluded from facilities and opportunities.
One of the most important things we have lacked in South Africa is due attention to these key features of education.
I was in a state of confusion as to especially the way the things were happening.
It is very symbolic and we feel proud to participate with our African sisters and brothers on this historical episode.
On their return, the mother went to check on the children and found that theeight-year-old was not coveredwith theblankets.
Goeppert will give his audience an insider's perspective on the design and construction of the unique roof, which will take nearly a year to complete.
The Jeppe station will also be open from early on to accommodate supporters who travel by rail and eight special fan trains have been arranged by Metrorail for Saturday.
Banks and other cash handlers, as well as retailers have already attended training sessions on the improved security features.
Five students will be selected to produce a life-sized bronze sculpture celebrating South Africa's decade of democracy.
South Africa has nine provinces, each with its own legislature, premier and executive council not to mention its own distinctive landscape, population, economy and climate.
Both countries would also consider other countries in which trilateral co-operation projects could be implemented.
They make themselves available as companions, fetch medication, and do shopping errands etc.
Good governance depends on mutual trust and reciprocal relations between government and people.
Potential Regional and National financing mechanisms need to be investigated to compile a comprehensive financing plan for the programme.
Together these enactments make up the Statute Book, usually a series of volumes that form a complete official record.
Discuss challenges in National Systems of Innovation, especially progressing from research to innovative products and services.
Refer to letters to Local Councils requesting directors as to their preferred options regarding the processing of subdivision applications.
Accordingly, one of the important preconditions for the renewal of Africa is necessarily the complete liberation of the peoples of the continent.
Only if we tackle these evils at source can we hope to prevent conflicts before they break out.
The Academy is comprised of an Academic Faculty, an Intelligence Research Institute and an Education, Training and Development Support Component.
If identification involves continued pain to animals, the stress will adversely affect production.
All these activities give us hope that the referendum will go ahead smoothly as planned.
Development initiatives are increasingly monitored through statistical indicator programmes such as the millennium development goals.
A set of principles and values, which underpin land affairs policy, has been critical in guiding the process of policy formulation as well as its application.
The time frames of the project however, do not allow for the speedy replacement of signals that are being vandalised.
It is therefore not surprising that many call our transition to democracy a miracle.
The wheels of justice turned swiftly in Durban against two men involved in an armed robbery at a North Beach retail outlet.
A police officer's duties are varied so that saving lives is also part of their vocation.
The United Nations will continue to play a constructive role in the new period of engagement and continue its major role on the ground in Kosovo.
Several of the interested parties requested an extension of the original deadline to enable them to submit comprehensive business plans.
Implementing this principle should build on existing strengths or capacities and identify gaps where capacity needs to be built.
As part of this process any unfair discrimination in employment is prevented and eliminated.
Visit the website of the Sunday Times and read a special report on the Cleanest Town Competition.
Where practical, fixed structures located in hazardous areas shall be removed or relocated.
Peace and stability are the prerequisites for democracy, development and co-operation.
Did they make any mention of the misgivings contained in these letters at the meetings?
We meet at a time when the importance of multilateralism, and the many challenges humanity faces, has never been so pertinent.
This is the first High Level Consultations following the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation signed by our two Ministers.
It may be necessary to periodically break the soil crust to facilitate water and fertiliser penetration.
Develop lines of communications internally and make all departments aware of the services the unit provides.
Indeed the methodology we have adopted might not have been an appropriate one in terms of its timing and we should have engaged in a more consultative process in hindsight.
It will also feature a sports complex that will accommodate a range of sports codes and sporting facilities.
Once the hill had been cleared, City Parks applied its expertise and created pathways and rock features, planted trees and installed benches.
The meeting also approved the SA Nanotechnology Strategy, which aims to further advance the country's work in this area, and ensure that we remain abreast of global developments.
This approach, adopted with regard to specialisation, has resulted in the formation of a strong base of qualified, experienced and dedicated investigators, prosecutors and adjudicators.
Was this decision conveyed then to other role players subsequently?
Government will ensure compliance with the provisions of this Charter and be exemplary in the way in which it deals with state assets.
The programme will and must therefore not detract from other programmes of health care and provision of social services.
Civic and voter education form a critical part in creating an environment conducive to holding credible and democratic elections.
As he was walking down the street, he saw a vehicle which was parked on the side of the road.
Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to elaborate on one of the major economic growth impediments for those of you who are conducting business in South Africa.
In this vein, the mayor invites all those related to the family to attend the reunion.
They are amongst the four biggest manufacturers of trucks and their prices are quite competitive and we explored what kind of co-operation we could embark upon.
And that shows that the funding programmes of government are having a penetrating effect in the private sector.
On behalf of the South Africa government and her people, I would like to thank the support that Italy has given us to ensure that this component realises its objectives.
High blood pressure is the most important controllable risk factor, so have your blood pressure checked regularly.
I believe we did support particularly in the provision of infra-structure a wide range of border industries.
Now do you know who paid for that radio link to Sandton?
The Department is now ready to take the next major step in pursuit of effective, equitable and sustainable fisheries management.
Projects aim to deliver a measurable benefit to an identified beneficiary community within a specified time-frame, after which the intervention ceases.
We need to reclaim our roads and create safe spaces for the enjoyment of all, she said.
The system will allow us to better manage our ability to provide support to our citizens following a catastrophe abroad.
In any case, the process of globalisation necessarily redefines the concept and practice of national sovereignty.
The curriculum requires learners to study seven subjects, comprising four core subjects and three electives.
This was mainly due to a decline in the mining sector and the vulnerability of agriculture in the area.
Our flag, the national anthem and coat of arms represent our national identity, and should continue to entrench pride and a sense of nationhood and patriotism to all of us.
A society that continues to oppress any section of its population denies itself the invaluable resource that human beings are to the development of society.
The success can be attributed amongst others to containing costs, good business and effective management.
Providing assistance to South African trade counsellors stationed in foreign countries.
Preventable diseases and HIV AIDS have to be fought and the debt burden has to be eliminated.
KwaZulu-Natal kept the festive mood up during the Freedom Day held at the Absa Stadium in Durban.
It has been constituted to respond to the challenges of peace, security and stability that face our region.
Women being the most victims of domestic violence have legal recourse that will ensure that they are protected.
Note that the cost associated with the bulk supply lines and reservoirs will be funded by the Council.
Otherwise Ambassador you are most welcome and we will work closely with you to see what we can do to achieve all of these results.
An added reason for the maintenance of the channels is to facilitate the movements of fish, notably those with a marine phase in their lives.
These officials both performed well and with loyalty to the ANC in their new postings.
Further, alongside poverty alleviation and nutritional interventions, government will encourage investigation into alternative treatments, particularly on supplements and medication for boosting the immune system.
With regard to outsourcing services to its partners involving financial arrangements, equality of partnership is not feasible.
For many of us all this deliberate and savage violence against human beings represents history, things that have come and gone.
However, recycling will not only be considered in cases where it is directly profitable.
More stringent and appropriate means testing and eligibility requirements for all welfare programmes will be applied.
These focus areas will develop South Africa's industrial capability for the fabrication of nuclear certified equipment, including pressure vessels, heat exchangers and fuel storage vessels.
Although many allegations of corruption were made, the Committee received very few substantiated allegations.
Frequent contact between both sides attests to the fact that we have excellent political relations.
I was not helped by either anybody but we manoeuvred as comrades to leave out of the country.
The Communication Centre monitors the print and electronic media to keep government communicators informed about developments within the communication environment.
The consular archives and documents shall be inviolable at all times and wherever they may be.
Provision should however be made for specific concessions under very special circumstances.
More value could be added to this analysis by exploring the geographical breakdown of summonses and judgments.
A large portion of the complaints were accounts related, and again a significant number of complaints emanated from a lack of response, inadequate communication or no response at all.
In some cases, the data are disaggregated by province, enabling analysis of regional developments.
Our country has a shortage of professionals in these career fields, which need these subjects as a prerequisite.
Once the final matriculation results have been received by the college, admission will be confirmed.
Today as we lead up to our festive period I would like to once again reflect on the essence of this plan.
The sector focus creates a co-operative and secure environment for firms, ensuring smooth economies of scale through provision of major new infrastructural programmes.
Mathematics as a subject was dropped from the school curriculum, and he then studied maths privately on his own after school.
A high fibre, low-salt and low-fat diet will help keep your blood pressure down.
It is unacceptable that so many people are being killed on a daily basis.
For Kimberley, the construction of this conference centre, with its tourism opportunities, will vitalize the local economic activity and help boost the province's Gross Domestic Product.
The primary objectives of a household and community level nutrition information strategy are threefold.
However, there is a great need for the motoring public to be more vigilant and report any suspicious incidents that could be related to vandalism.
There has, however, been an international shift away from a regulatory approach to a more facilitative one.
The global balance of power will remain relatively stable, though subject to evolutionary change, for several decades.
These successes give a clear indication of the seriousness with which organised crime in the North West is being dealt with.
An education and feeding programme for pre-school learners introduces them to the museum in a friendly manner, encouraging forte visits.
Speaker, the challenges in all of these achievements, is that these cannot be seen as once-off activities.
Bills submitted by the above deadline will be passed by the end of the second term subject to the translation being available before scheduled debates.
This is often done through inference based on data from other countries, or by use of out-of-date surveys.
Importantly, as has been demonstrated in South Africa and internationally, problem-oriented partnership strategies for policing produce positive results in terms of reducing crime.
We know the passport that will take poverty-stricken people into a comfortable and contributing life, is proper learning.
No, I am not guessing, I am talking about things that happened and things that I saw.
Their work and documentations assisting refugees were often not recognised by authorities.
The Blue Flag National Co-ordinator has expressed her delight at what these beaches have achieved and rated them as some of the best in the country.
In primary schools, the main stakeholders for purposes of governance comprise the parents and teachers.
This role is fulfilled by issuing an operating certificate to a licensee every year.
Otherwise Ambassador, you are most welcome and we will work closely with you to see what we can do to achieve all of these results.
Some features may not need ongoing adjustment, for example, topography, environmentally sensitive areas; while others such as infrastructure, land use would need to be adjusted on an ongoing basis.
There is a plethora of reasons why many learners drop out of the formal schooling system.
Following this visit to a few selected construction projects will be conducted, allowing for photographic opportunities.
Some strides have been made in the licensing of private and community sectors of broadcasting.
We will improve the quality of life of the citizens of KwaZulu-Natal by maximizing opportunities for Recreation and Sporting excellence through mass participation and development.
Please feel welcome here on this special day where we are gathering to pray for peace and for the many socio-economic ills that affect our communities.
The Separate Amenities legislation was doomed from the moment that young black and white people with the same qualifications began working side by side in banks, shops and factories.
The drop will mainly be experienced in maize, groundnuts, and cassava production.
Now I take it therefore you appreciate that your evidence should be geared or would be geared in order that those terms of reference are reflected.
A member of the public informed the police about the whereabouts of the injured man, and the detectives on standby immediately arrested him.
After spending several hours building a shack, slack-jawed young learners watched a fire destroy it in mere minutes.
We are committed to accelerating agricultural land production, social safety nets, and financial support for small and medium sized farmers.
It is also clear that the consumption and production patterns especially amongst our high income groups have become unsustainable.
Labour inspectors must advise workers and employers on their labour rights and obligations.
They should see themselves as valuable contributors who make others run for their money.
Metro Water has introduced a novel new way that will enable the public to report faults to do with engineering and water services.
Both sides emphasised the importance of international co-operation to protect and promote human rights.
In the light of the information and the certainty work group was attributed to this and they would have confirmed the necessity of such company.
Other bills that will be tabled are the Division of Revenue Bill and Western Cape Inherited Debt Relief Bill.
I would like us to make a start and I begin by welcoming all of you who are attending this hearing.
Satellite Training is situated at Logistics, Silverton and is mainly occupied with skills development facilitation and internship programmes.
Taking due cognisance of the debilitated condition of much of the industry today, the public sector will introduce best practice incrementally on public-sector contracts.
Every South African has the right to a living and working environment which is not detrimental to his or  her health and well-being.
Policies seeking to promote domestic competitiveness, growth and employment and increase the outward orientation of the economy have been implemented.
Government will assess the viability of the different strategies in relation to each other with specific emphasis on the overall cost-effectiveness of each strategy.
Prices for minerals and processed mineral products will be determined by the market.
As we kick off our Arrive Alive campaign today, I want to commend the men and women who have been stationed at this satellite operational centre.
This project shows a successful community-based farm and an exciting start by new entrants to farming activities.
I believe that the struggle against apartheid was in itself a unifying force, because we were focused.
The City would now like to identify Community Liaison Officers to liaise between the City, the community and the contractor for the duration of this project.
You have initialled every page of the will and signed the last page, in the presence of the witnesses.
All systems and administrative and accountability procedures must be user-friendly and efficient.
The Secretary-General may accept, on behalf of the Organization, gifts, bequests and other donations made to the Organization, provided that this is approved by the Council of Ministers.
Application of fertiliser, particularly nitrogen, can cause distinct poisoning problems, both from the high nitrate content in the herbage following fertilisation and from fertiliser lumps and spills during application.
Although investment is critical, economic recovery hinges on political stability in a country.
When they did occur, governments often lacked the capacity and ability to use the information collected.
We announced the phased approached to the implementation of this programme at the opening of Parliament.
Command-and-control instruments involve direct regulation and rely primarily on the application of regulatory instruments such as standards, permits, and land use controls.
It is indeed an honour and a privilege for us to join the people and government of Mozambique to commemorate ten years of peace and stability in your beautiful country.
Are you referring to the main tunnel below the western grandstand which also contains the medical centre and gives you access to the field?
We want to increase the number of historically disadvantaged people that own, manage and control the levers of economic power.
He will further elaborate on how hosting the world cup is expected to improve South Africa and Africa's global standing, both politically and economically.
In preparing these guidelines, compliance with existing accounting standards has been emphasised.
Your high level attendance at this meeting confirms our shared view of the timeliness of this engagement.
To respond to the unfounded fears about the future among some of our compatriots, we are asked to avoid telling the truth.
We want to urge them to continue partnering with us in building a broad united front against crime.
Applicants risk being disqualified for failing to submit all the required documents.
Activities are organised into two sub-programmes, namely Public Diplomacy and Protocol.
Poverty also places strains on household resources and on family and informal networks, which increase the need for formal social welfare services.
We call upon all previously excluded communities to make applications to the department for the delivery of social services in their areas.
We continue to interact with all role players in this crisis in order to build confidence and trust.
It also makes sure that you have the right to request reasons for administrative action that negatively affects you.
They removed plastic sheets and blankets covering the drums and found the parcels of dagga inside.
This addressed a range of key factors responsible for the demise of statistics in Africa: inadequate funding, poor management, outdated technology, inadequate co-ordination, and slow response to new data needs.
In the mix also are the learners' crucial needs to play and socialise.
These characteristics find strong resonance with your own situation here in Central Karoo.
Permit holders should be in possession of their permits at all times.
There should be no discrimination against mineworkers on the basis of their geographical origin.
Three possible combinations of machinery, together with the work rate of each, are given below.
South Africans should concentrate on finding commonalities and shared values.
There is no doubt that this gathering has attracted attention.
The rising sun above the horizon is placed between the wings of the secretary bird and completes the oval shape of ascendance.
You can register whether you are new to the industry or if you are a guide whose registration has lapsed.
Stellenbosch University presents a number of short courses in renewable and sustainable energy studies to enhance the capacity in the country to implement projects in this area.
Kosovo Albanians have indicated that further negotiations would serve no purpose as they want nothing else but independence.
Several other participants have received job-specific training, which puts them in line for job promotion in the enterprise.
Government housing policy and strategy is essentially directed at utilising limited State resources in order to achieve maximum gearing of such efforts and resources with non-State investment and delivery.
Local government elections use a mixture of proportional representation and constituency-based elections.
It should start with clarifying the philosophy, and redefining the mission, focus and priorities of intelligence in order to establish a new culture of intelligence.
There has been a welcome internationalisation of the student body, overall and at various institutions.
I am advised that there may be somebody arguing otherwise from the legal representatives.
But you recall also that as you went in some people were leaving and it is your considered opinion, though doubtful that it must have been Flight Engineers.
The next few months will see the world frantically at work, as reform is high on the agenda.
Beef cattle produce beef, and are solid and well muscled.
This act could also incorporate an appropriate legal framework for those co-operatively organised small enterprises which currently fall outside existing legislation on co-operatives.
Africa cannot become a full-fledged member of the international community without having achieved its own monetary and economic integration.
As you know, President Kabila is paying a State Visit to South Africa.
The integrated action plan identifies six key performance areas, namely, growth, competitiveness, employment, small business development, black economic empowerment, and geographic spread.
I have an English translation since I can't speak Afrikaans, but let me paraphrase it.
All information is documented and reported to the employee and all others who will be supporting the complainant.
An incentive for investments by companies in energy-efficient equipment will be introduced, in the form of a supplementary depreciation allowance.
Let us commit ourselves to provide accessible, fair, speedy, cost-effective and quality justice for all.
These interventions are largely manufacturing-based, and the demand for engineering expertise will grow substantially as a result.
Many developing nations still feel marginalized and excluded from the benefits of globalisation and the digital age.
If you post it, make sure you leave enough time for it to arrive before the deadline.
Most of the sectors we have identified for investment and export promotion match those in which Swedish industry has shown strengths.
He said the City of Matlosana had followed the example of other municipalities and have initiated programmes aimed at football development.
Four horses arrived but there were actually eight mounted policemen because four of them were doing duty in the two little vehicles.
Whether it was called Crisis Committee or whatever but this group existed and handled matters which affected the family at that particular moment.
The directorate assists departments and provinces with the development of their communication strategies and share with them the National Communication Strategy.
General project management   interlinking activities, project monitoring, project budget.
It is now better prepared for being the mechanism to devise and oversee development policies and practices.
All information about the projects is provided by the project co-ordinators.
Where the topography is very uneven, standards should be closer together, but on fairly level ground, they can be placed further apart.
I've had some refusing on me that were in prison, there were some that had skipped the country to evade their undertaking to testify, so anything could have happened.
He's a teacher and he's the only man who has started and established an orchestra, purely Black.
When I got to Mrs Mandela's house I parked my vehicle outside and I went in and I spoke to her and she greeted me.
Workers may not be treated unfairly for demanding their rights in terms of this Act.
I know this guy, I can't recall his real name but we usually call him Pontsu.
This could be just one of the aspects of a process of preserving our collective memory of past abuses.
We are on the road to guarantee that never again no other non-African will define Africa.
I do hope that my conduct will not embarrass you in any way.
Going back and facing the ghosts of those places important in helping me to lay them to rest.
I find fulfilment in giving to others and am rewarded when it is taken, adapted and used within other teaching, learning and assessment experiences.
We cannot say that such dictatorships do not exist or that no attempt will be made in future to establish them.
Chairperson the witness said he cannot remember whether he testified at the inquest or not.
She thought that our circumstances dictated that, given the national will, we would be the first in the world genuinely to create such a society.
The exercise to remove some inmates from correctional facilities is not the only method we have adopted to address overcrowding.
They seek an acceleration of the process leading to the complete eradication of the legacy of apartheid.
He died in such a gruesome manner because he was not able to take the treatment that was metered out to him at the prison.
In all humility, I would like to suggest that the Government does not need educating on any of these matters.
Nothing is more certain in modern society than the principal that there are no absolutes.
Protection of our environment and our planet for future generations is a responsibility that lies squarely on us.
Out of personal malice, ill-will or spite, directed against the victim of the acts committed.
An Information Desk, Briefing Room and cafeteria facilities will be in operation throughout the Summit period.
The impact of these disadvantages is frequently evident in social deprivation, poor quality schools, higher unemployment and inadequate infrastructures.
In the past four years, a series of joint projects have been undertaken between Leeds and Durban.
Namakwa municipality must facilitate community participation of environment impact studies.
The museum features a recreation of the home of one of Durban's most prominent families, the Robinsons.
Regulation covering local content will be severely tested by the emergence of new distribution platforms.
The second phase involves the construction of freeway widening to create sufficient width for the additional lanes.
We will need to continue working with international financial institutions and developing countries to fashion a global financial architecture that cushions so-called emerging markets from occasional market irrationality.
Infrastructure investment is a key mechanism for increasing the productivity of economies, and thus boosting economic growth.
Speaker, this Budget of Hope is targeted towards enhanced and expedited service delivery.
In contrast beneficiaries are a large group and victims defined in relation to beneficiaries are the vast majority of society.
This was provided through a targeted intervention by the Development Bank of South Africa.
Unfortunately because of the fact that we have many vehicles, I cannot recall that call sign.
The need to ensure that we have appropriate capacity at the centre of government will be balanced with the rightsizing process of government.
We have done so with some measure of success and are currently enjoying high levels of macroeconomic stability and business confidence.
The multicultural heart of the city of Durban and its immediate suburbs crystallises into various components as you leave the city.
The Justice Footprint Project has delivered international best in class solutions, which we are about to implement.
She reported the matter to the police, who arrested and charged Masemeni for rape.
Tax depreciation rules applicable to small business in the manufacturing sector will also be favourably amended.
The Commission include doctors and other medical specialists such as neurologists, educationalists, artists, religious leaders, attorneys and civil and human rights representatives who advise and assist in their professional capacity.
Premier Brown decided not to appeal against the decision, despite having misgivings about aspects of the judgment.
If the learner is found competent during assessment then the Certificate of Attendance will be replaced by a Certificate of Competence.
The same goes for many pilgrims who arrived in these beautiful islands seeking refuge from religious persecution.
Discipline is to be effected fairly, consistently, progressively and promptly.
I am pleased that, through this initiative the Western Cape can share its experience with the rest of South Africa.
Visitors will be treated to daily designer fashion shows on a ramp of real snow; snow-boarding championships on Friday morning and chocolate everywhere - including chocolate couture.
I am honoured and pleased to welcome you to the new South Africa towards whose birth this Movement and its individual members contributed so much.
I am asking you whether that person acted unlawfully or not, it's a simple question.
Is prima facie proof of the issue of the original thereof to the alleged offender and that such original was handed to the offender.
This project can be implemented in areas such as mining, construction of nuclear hydro power stations and other areas of cooperation.
Poorly organised events can have severe repercussions for the city and the industry she adds.
They allegedly purchased the vehicles with fraudulent documents such as pay slips and identification books.
A yellow fever vaccination is a prerequisite for obtaining a South African visa.
The Provider and the Owners, their affiliates or subsidiary reserve the right to refuse service, terminate accounts, remove or edit content, or cancel orders in their sole discretion.
There should be honesty and no attempt to manipulate or act with hidden agendas.
Health professionals - People with formal qualifications that care for the sick, such as nurses, doctors, psychiatrists and other specialists.
In the science and technology arena South Africa has always enjoyed good support from the Italians.
Pork should always be handled separately from other meats and foodstuffs, to avoid cross contamination.
This division includes the administration and activities of foreign governments stationed in South Africa.
They are remanded in custody but are detainedat different police stations while the police continue with the investigations.
Budget and group accommodation, including for backpackers, is also available.
Nominations are awaited for the annual Female Farmer of the Year competition, organised by the Department of Agriculture.
Waste audit and recommendations for re-use of materials in the construction sector in the Western Cape.
This directive of the Constitutional Court will be carried out as soon as parliament reconvenes at the beginning of February.
I would like to express Redress support and encouragement for this process which we view as extremely timely and important.
The Forum has an invaluable contribution to make to ensure that we are successfully able to meet this multi-faceted challenge.
Bring public servants together to commemorate the value and virtue of service delivery improvement to the communities they serve.
It is alleged that the victim was left with the suspect in the house as the victim's aunt was attending to a night vigil.
In an effort to make the Confederations Cup accessible to everyone, regardless of whether or not they can afford a ticket, the city will be hosting public viewing areas.
I am today in the Swartland area to visit some of the farms that have been affected by the ongoing drought.
Apart from our common ancestry, there is a lot more that Ugandans and South Africans share.
Meanwhile, the demographic profile of researchers in South Africa is changing.
We are also concerned that the fight against terrorism must not be at the expense of the respect for international law and the protection of human rights and civil liberties.
Actual costs to cremate the deceased or to inter him or her in a grave.
The quantity of water which has been preserved in the soil before planting time has a major influence on the establishment, growth and survival of the plants during droughts.
That was what I was thinking, that we are going to enlist some help from Mrs Mandela, and that is all.
In the second set, the Spanish duo was again struggling to find the rhythm with the American sisters taking the second set at love.
Well as long as your point is going to be that you are going to put your versions that you want to put to this particular witness.
Laboratory services should be linked to the National Health Information System and information gathered by health laboratories should be processed and disseminated appropriately.
This development is marked as important progress for the whole world.
I unfortunately was unable to get that submission to inform my own, but nevertheless.
It seeks to empower parents and caregivers to become involved in the development and education of their children.
The United Nations will be responsible for simultaneous interpretation and for off-site translation during the Conference.
The fire department is experiencing what it believes to be industrial action in that labour is being withheld.
Amnesty International took up this case when Michael was denied bail and kept in police cells for six months.
In this regard we are committed to play our part in a constructive and responsible manner.
By simply improving managerial capacity, we will help to improve the quality of education in our schools.
Indeed we are beginning to place education and skills at the centre of all our endeavours.
The testing and re-testing results are captured on a data base programme specifically designed for this purpose.
We are anticipating that the results will have a very positive effect on investor sentiment.
Traffic going down Pine Street will be free-flowing with only one lane closed on the left hand side.
What the Chinese are doing in the Beijing Olympics is surely an example for us in this regard, he said.
I have even heard it said that the transformation process in which we are engaged is inimical to the goal of national reconciliation.
We have also argued that if the world is to meet the deadlines envisaged in the Millennium Development Goals, this requires multilateral action especially to support the African continent.
Business people can assist by among others, adopting police stations, assisting with resources for crime prevention initiatives such as encouraging people to enlist as police reservists in various categories.
Government is working with pharmaceutical companies to lower the cost of drugs for these infections.
This multibillion rand industry will see stability in the private financing sector and increasing private sector medical aid cover.
It measures whether the economy has grown or shrunk, in what sectors and at what rate.
The data collection consisted of an extensive interview, which was conducted on five separate occasions.
How you can get involved in influencing a decision that will affect the environment and how to protect the environment through agreements with government.
I have it here somewhere but let me just finish what I am trying to say to you.
A children's court may vary, suspend or rescind a contribution order or revive the order after it has been rescinded.
This specialist programme is aimed at winemakers and those interested in pursuing a related career in the wine industry.
The Government of Slovenia currently has no official representation in South Africa.
Many among us have used our native and acquired intelligence to learn ways of cheating.
Programme export potential within Africa and the rest of the world for South African productions should be encouraged wherever possible.
Anything happening negatively will cast an incorrect impression on what will happen in the rest of Africa.
It is my hope that our deliberations today will indeed a long way to enhance our military-to-military relations, as has been witnessed by the various exchanges between our two countries.
Public buildings and structures need to be renamed in honour of individuals and past events.
It must, in other words, be measured so that results can be assessed.
Do you have any problems with the apportionment of security duties so far in this exposition?
However, economies change and the methodological basis for measuring them must evolve.
Well-being is a multi-faceted concept that refers to human needs, interests and wants.
That he said nothing other than that after the game he was at a gate where he was sprayed in the face.
If any lumps, enlargement, swelling or change in texture can be felt in the scrotum - see a doctor.
In the catchments other state land is declared State Forest and administered by the Department of Water Affairs and Forestry.
You can be criminally charged for failing to help anyone who is hurt in the accident.
Through the tireless efforts of our leaders, Africa is now firmly entrenched on the global agenda and we are always ready to stand up and be counted.
Management must develop, with consultants and in-company specialists, and with relevant staff organisations and unions, a clear definition of, and policy on sexual harassment.
So you must understand that there is a broader picture in the context of which we put some of the questions.
They have gone past the milestone of signing the agreements.
Ambassador you are most welcome and I do wish you a successful stay.
You are not suggesting that that was not the duty of Stallion before?
The Department of Defence will address the funding shortfalls through the normal budgeting and adjustment processes.
Your continued and hopefully increased investment in education in this province could not have come at a better time.
She has not elected to ignore either her individual past or her own role in fashioning our country's past.
People who access dams, rivers and lakes should be able to help themselves in water.
As far as I know there was no fertility project registered at Roodeplaat.
Anger and concern of millions of people throughout the world is manifesting itself in South Africa.
The following two South African definitions of Inclusive Education are the perspectives of the reference committees and consultative bodies who were commissioned to investigate the future of Special Education.
Materials for health workers should contain only scientific and factual information.
Plans are afoot to promote small farmers and boost local food supplies by making eThekwini and KwaZulu-Natal a soybean production centre.
The first thing our new strategy does is spell out a theoretical framework for teachers and teaching.
We cannot overemphasise the role regulation has to play in promoting the right framework for infrastructure development and integration.
Historically, substantial tariff protection has been provided to the synthetic fuels industry, with a direct effect on the price of fuel to consumers.
The principal, teachers and medical personnel tried to resuscitate him for over an hour, after which he died.
We are pleased that police acted swiftly to apprehend four suspects in connection with the rape and commend the quick action with regards to a trial.
That negative impacts on the environment and on people's environmental rights be anticipated and prevented, and where they cannot be altogether prevented, are minimised and remedied.
Three suspects were arrested for murder in three separate incidents that occurred in the North West over the weekend.
We all have a responsibility to be part of this titanic struggle for the renewal and rebirth of our Continent.
Do not let anyone but uniformed airline personnel handle or watch your bags.
Heads of Missions make provision for their own transport through their respective budgets.
This is a daunting challenge facing us in the immediate future, but one, which will eventually bring great rewards.
These need to be constantly capacitated in order to complement the sterling efforts of the South African Police Services.
It's not simply abstract compartmentalised dry sort of legal stuff in the books.
Every member of the Association shall pay an annual subscription to the funds of the Association.
Then the sixth point is communist involvement and I have dealt with, at length, in my previous presentations in this regard.
We will try to reconcile and bring together some tolerance within the political parties.
Sunday work, like night work, can have disruptive social and family consequences.
As regards lesser conflicts, however, it is clear that we are still confronted with significant challenges.
This area is in its embryonic stage, due primarily to a lack of dedicated capacity and resources.
The Department is also actively promoting plea bargaining which can be used for every type of offence and sentence.
One thousand volunteers will be drawn from communities in areas identified as being crime hot spots, as well as farming areas and poverty pockets with emphasis on previously disadvantaged individuals.
Implementing such initiatives will be challenging and will require high levels of competency.
There must be a reconfirmation of this commitment, further movement and a critical look at what has already happened.
Performance indicators will be established, and the achievement of these objectives will be monitored by the relevant co-ordinating bodies.
Firstly, this government will not allow mayhem in an industry that purports to offer a service to communities of our province.
In respect of my status, my willingness to cooperate and the limitations placed on me because of the situation I now find myself in.
An important element of this is the growing importance of our country as a resource of FDI to our continent.
Recognize the voluntary efforts of administrators, coaches, technical officials and community leaders.
You can do that by disturbing the visual picture or also the brain's reaction on that.
When the disinfection process has been completed, the water installation shall be flushed with water from the water supply system.
This chapter provides a concise overview of the key issues pertaining to freshwater resources in South Africa.
The institutional fragmentation has created a situation where pollution is not managed in a manner that takes into account possible movements of pollutants between media.
Security is conceived as a holistic phenomenon and incorporates political, social, economic and environmental issues.
I've already forgotten what he said in the first few sentences.
In my acceptance speech as Premier I promised the people of the Western Cape an end to the embarrassment of being the laughing stock of provincial governments in our country.
The public parks, swimming pools and other recreation facilities in the area are maintained and controlled by the local authority.
I think people acting together do have a chance of creating a modern non-racial industry.
The survey indicates that housing and healthcare are perceived as critical areas of under-delivery, although these, like transport and community safety, are not the sole responsibility of local government.
The ground text compilation has been completed and the data is in the process of being verified by a subject field specialist.
Shops which, as an ancillary activity are engaged in the baking of bakery products on the premises for sale to the general public are included.
The SABC has a portfolio of three television services and sixteen radio services.
Invasion by alien species of plants and animals is a major problem in South Africa.
As a Municipality we are continuously ensuring improved access to free basic services and dealing with backlogs in basic infrastructure.
Other things like the construction of infrastructure which is progressing well in different cities will continue, he said.
The police followed up clues and information from the scene of crime and three men were arrested on Thursday.
Tourism is increasing in the region and is linked to the provision of accommodation in scenic areas adjacent to the estuary.
This came at an opportune time to honour him while he was still amongst us for the historic journey he travelled for the benefit of us all.
The school was vandalised and telephone lines, toilet pots and an electrical power box were damaged.
South African Paramedics are highly in demand throughout the world due to the nature of training and skills.
It will be the saddest day for our Nation when we will not have adults because our Youth have died from HIV infection.
The government of South Africa avails all its resources to assist you in setting up your businesses in South Africa.
The re-establishment of the Mission Security function is underway, as is the establishment of document security in the Department.
Breakout procurement or unbundling means that projects are split into contracts of smaller values so as to increase the chances of smaller companies getting work.
Users of overdue items are notified either by letter, email or a telephone call.
These catalogues are a list of the available archival records housed in National Archives of South Africa facilities.
The shift towards fiscal decentralisation, wherein we create the environment for municipalities to take responsibility for financing and operating their own infrastructure investments, is gaining ground.
The policerushed to the scene and upon arrival, the owner of the house was found standingat the gate.
Assistive rehabilitation technology enables individuals with disabilities to participate on equal terms.
We will also ensure that government buys more goods and services locally, without undermining our global competitiveness or pushing up costs beyond acceptable levels.
The recent and illegal strike activity by workers demanding to be employed by the city has been most unfortunate and puts our city in a very bad light.
Important sections of big business can sometimes now be heard to say, when pressed, that perhaps they should with hind sight have been more pro-active against Apartheid.
I think I have alluded to that fact in my statement, in my visitation yesterday.
South Africa's major exports to Kuwait are organic chemicals, iron and steel products and paper whereas imports from Kuwait consist almost exclusively of crude oil and petroleum products.
Dial-a-Ride is a transport service for people for whom other forms of public transport are not suitable as a result of their special needs.
We are duty-bound to deliver service that is equitable, appropriate and accessible, while ensuring efficiency and cost effectiveness.
In a sample survey, weighting of the data collected, so that sample information is made representative of the total population, is always undertaken.
The re-classification of species into less threatened categories is an indicator of conservation success.
The President believes that through this meeting the conditions of the quality of professional service would be assessed.
We had two incidences from the same guys who were more interested in the football than that.
But distinctions are made in order to apply different levels of responsibility, obligation and accountability.
Developing a Poverty Alleviation Programme focused on food security, soup kitchens and the like.
When we spoke from this podium at the Millennium Debate last year, we urged that we should use this year to prepare for the launch of the African Century.
Promotes and facilitates social dialogues about provincial policies and strategies around human rights.
This precautionary measure has been taken to safeguard the international credibility of the South Africa's agricultural industry.
The third element on the subjective plane consists in our intervention in the process of global governance, which is an inherent part of the process of globalisation.
Yes, we are widely regarded as one of the world's top tourism destinations.
The high mineral commodities change prices and the discovery of new oil reserves can change the bleak picture.
We have also released the draft immigration regulations for public comment.
You are invited to attend a training session scheduled for the media to familiarise them with the results system that will be used in the Results Operation Centre in Pretoria.
The work done regarding the e-scheduler and the appointment of court managers will assist to address this issue.
That the International Air Services Act be amended to implement the recommended deregulation of international air freight services.
A disadvantage here is that regulators and policy makers have no control of who gets a broadcasting licence.
The vision of the centre is to educate, empower, support and transform women and children who have been abused.
A further decision was taken to assist such countries resolutely to move towards a democratic system of government.
Maybe with the assistance of the lady there, on page four of the typewritten statement.
Let's say groups or military structures have to infiltrated, the same methods are used.
I am not sure what this question has to do with the question of postponement.
Operating licences are valid for a maximum of five years.
The victim alleged that she went to Maseru Bridge to phone her boyfriend.
But, if you are given reasons verbally and you are happy with this, then there is no problem.
As we all know, one of the challenges facing our continent is hunger and food insecurity.
TB can lead to serious, irreversible damage of the lungs, disability and even death.
Globalisation also presents potentially positive opportunities for developing countries including the opening of markets, access to information, technology and other resources.
It was this attitude of colonial arrogance, disregard for the religious independence and cultures of the people of Africa that unified our countries in the struggle against colonialism.
Scarce resources of foreign exchange had to be conserves and allocated for essential international payments.
Distinguished Guests, none among us here can overstate the importance of the development of new materials.
These clubs emerged as alternatives to traditional banking, which was previously unavailable to the poor, but also provide very important community networks as social clubs.
The public have been encouraged to curtail their electricity usage by investing in a number of energy efficient technologies, including geyser blankets, energy saving light bulbs and solar energy.
I can't remember the number of shares, but it was a par value.
Any action taken should be informed by thorough investigations and incontrovertible evidence.
This includes the assembly and management of all information that affects and influences film making in the region.
And truly speaking, this unity is long-lived because it goes hand in hand with democratic practices that I have been talking about.
This discovery was made after the Flying Squad Unit followed a tracking device signal of one of the stolen vehicles.
Everything can change, but service delivery to the people who elected us must be sacrosanct.
Members of the media are invited to a press breakfast to be briefed on the eThekwini Habitat Month Project.
I was testing the basis of that impression, especially in the absence of no identification marks on the armoured uniform.
As most of you know, our country is suffering a crippling shortage of maths, science and technology graduates.
It also looked at knowledge management and partnership models for sustainable e-government.
The Colophon beetle is the only species placed in this appendix by South Africa.
Midvaal Online will occasionally update this Statement of Privacy to reflect company and customer feedback.
I deny, vehemently, the allegations made that the truck had been sent to commit murder.
An agreement on agricultural barriers has become the major obstacle to an overall agreement in the current Doha trade round.
I would also like to mention that in our province now we're beginning to have some psychologists and also psychiatrists.
There are others that we raise in terms of the recognition of unions in other areas.
Provincial, metropolitan and local authorities are to identify specific parcels of land that can be developed in the short-term.
Foreign Affairs Consular officers will provide the bereaved families with the necessary consular assistance with particular reference to the repatriation of the mortal remains back to South Africa.
She is one of many brave children, just like you, who have to go to court to do a very important job.
Prior to the election of a democratic government, security policy was formulated by a minority government.
Yes, we gave her a full report of the allegations which were being made by people we debriefed.
The implementation phase should now be made to lead to the end of the war and suffering of the Burundian people.
The little guy was clever enough to stay on the pavement and not towonder into the busy street.
The liquidity risk is considered as low, because the Fund has adequate funds at their disposal.
The rules of conduct for public service employees shall be part of an integrated anti-corruption system.
The council did occasionally rap newspapers for breaches, but actually received few serious complaints over the years.
One of the recommendations was formation of a Multi- Disciplinary Investigative unit that will launch further investigation into incidents that plunged the taxi industry into violence and criminality.
The next section presents some possible institutional arrangements for implementing the Coastal Policy.
The upward bias that has resulted from the change in method will last until the end of this year, rather than the indefinite previous downward bias.
Government will create a framework to facilitate a productive and non-adversarial approach to industrial relations and ensure that minimum standards apply to work in mining.
Chewing the cud helps reduce feed particle size, and mixes saliva into the feed.
The hostel was initially developed for use by male work seekers entering the urban environment for the first time.
Well I saw it as military ends in the context that if people use CBWs against you, you could use some of it back.
This would have the benefit of causing least disturbance to industry arrangements at a time of increasing market competition, and least gratuitous damage to the SABC's revenue base.
Notice should be taken of the fact that all human history is oral in its origins.
The above mentioned vacancy exist in the Project Management Unit and is subject to a bi-annual performance review.
A new Forensic Pathology laboratory will be commissioned on the premises of the former Paarl East Day Hospital.
So I understand your answer to mean you were all really trained as hit squad operatives.
Unfortunately, these have frequently been provided with inadequate specifications, or proper testing, and almost always without consultation with the intended users.
Revitalisation of community art centres will help the sector take advantage of increased tourism leading up to and during the event.
The other hospitals require physical infrastructure changes and will therefore require more preparatory time before being fully commissioned.
A resources of the latest and most important information about Parliament as it unfolds.
These investors may or may not be the carbon buyers who will pay for certified credits on delivery.
State land along the sea-shore shall not be alienated, unless in the long-term public interest.
Budget, per activity and aggregated by category, e.g. consultancy fees, printing costs, etc.
The number of members representing state departments and statutory bodies will comprise not more than half the membership of the Board, excluding the Chairperson.
We have been able to make this proposal because we have succeeded in instilling a culture of payment for services in Cape Town.
Debt relief should therefore continue to be on our agenda as we engage the developed world.
Combating serious and violent crime continues to be one of the main challenges facing our province and the country.
We suggest that we proceed and if we feel that we are really encountering difficulties we will indicate.
In fact, we have had the busiest year for African development issues in a long time.
It is very worrying that following these reports appeared in domestic and international media.
A police service agency website should play a strong role in educating people on issues such as drug abuse.
Stats SA will choose the source with regard to quality, timeliness, costs and the burden on respondents.
Government intends to move away from price control with the achievement of suitable transitional milestones and arrangements.
The police would like to make an appeal to the community not to lay false complaintsbecause you will be caught out andprosecuted.
This reality presents us with an extended period of celebration and education.
There are also too many South Africans who are unofficially in Iraq engaged in security services.
A deficiency of manganese in pregnant cows causes weak legs in newly born calves.
The improvement has been attributed to an extensive overhaul of the City's staff structure and financial systems over the past two years.
Signs in this class shall be limited to urban areas of partial and days of the passing of the event.
Our coast is a rich national heritage that provides enormous benefits to the people of South Africa.
I have visited certain school communities who shared with me the effects of drug abuse by school-going children on their families, and who requested interventions.
Past inappropriate site and service approaches through which the poor were accommodated have to be left behind for good.
We also understand that people throughout the world, are fascinated by the San and their way of life.
Governments must try to make sure that no children are deprived of their right to health care.
Supply of reticulated water can both reduce the amount of time a household would spend collecting water, and prevent the spread of water-borne illnesses such as cholera and dysentery.
This division includes the activity of obtaining and redistributing funds, other than for the purpose of insurance and pension funding.
The Department rejects any form of corruption and   or maladministration and all employees vow to expose any actions undermining principles of good corporate governance.
This project is set up to promote and enhance four key nodes of great historical significance as part of the effort to create jobs through tourism.
The community water supply would be augmented by this water and is critically needed due to shortage and water quality of the groundwater resource.
South Africa has delivered a myriad of top class footballers consistently over the decades but never have they had the opportunities the current generation enjoys.
All children who seek accommodation at a shelter are assessed by a social worker.
She encouraged youngsters to make use of the opportunity this year and make a big change in their own lives.
Outlining several aspects of the surrounding region, the museum provides an overview of the development of the Pinetown region from prehistory to modern times.
We are accountable and transparent, provide value for money, are customer-focused and strive for the highest service quality.
Germany as one of the leading industrial countries in the world is also a valued multilateral partner of South Africa.
Handled correctly by those handling these matters, we can find a solution.
The Council should advise Heads of State to look into ways and means to further involve themselves in the Palestinian issue.
Land uses at the primary airports need to be optimised to meet to the specific needs of tourists.
It found that Lehohla had financed his property holdings through normal bank loans, and that no evidence of financial impropriety in his personal affairs could be found.
I was told to produce a thousand kilograms and this went via the normal financial channels of the company.
But he told us he is an ardent fan - supporter and he said he is not a card carrying supporter.
A condolence book will also be made available from tomorrow in the City Hall foyer to be signed.
This new culture has made a remarkable impact within and beyond the continent.
Over the years South African people have responded to their predicament and devised institutions to control their environment as described in the input paper on this seminar.
Serious expression should be given with regard to exchanges of technology in the fields of mining, mineral beneficiation, etc.
The National Environmental Indicators Programme was initiated to develop environmental indicators for enhanced state of the environment reporting in South Africa.
The roles and responsibilities of each of the partners will be defined and negotiated where necessary.
All children with suspected measles and sudden onset of paralysis are to be taken to the nearest health facility for investigations and treatment.
These sessions are ideal for data users who want more in-depth knowledge on specific areas.
Foreign ministers from seven Muslim nations meeting in Islamabad have called for a diplomatic answer to concerns over Iran's nuclear programme.
Our database comprises a wide range of data sets, of which most are sourced from other parties.
I am certain that we who are at this important meeting have not closed our ears and our minds to these heartrending cries for help.
The Programme endeavours to coordinate the efforts of all role-players to ensure the optimal use of resources.
The council took the move after Arab and Western foreign ministers agreed on an amended version of a Britain-drafted resolution.
Optimising our national agricultural resources  water, soil and climate  for sustainable economic development.
Potential investors, who will also have the opportunity to co-develop the hotel, were reportedly taken on a site visit in July.
There are thus four parties involved viz. the worker, the employer and the various governments.
Does coordinating also mean or imply that you ultimately take decisions relating to the security of Ellis Park?
It was probably about, I would guess, and please correct me, about four o'clock that night, when Mr Lewis, my deputy, phoned me at house, at my home.
You know better than what I do that land is an emotive issue in this country.
The number of kilometres travelled per litre used.
A sluicing flume was recently developed by Hydrology in co-operation with the WRC and University of Stellenbosch.
Motorists are urged to consider alternate routes since delays are expected, and to exercise caution when approaching the worksite which will be suitably demarcated.
If there are not enough recruits then the figures suggested could be halved without interfering with the structural arrangement .
Chaos erupted as the suspect fought back and resisted arrest, with screaming people running in all directions.
He swept the golds in his pet events, overpowered competitors in his weak races and still managed to win when his goggle malfunctioned.
Deflation could worsen the economic downturn by making debts harder to pay off and countering the impact of Fed interest-rate cuts, said Mr Wei.
Old Oregon pine floor lady that has been restored into a three-bedroom, four bathroom guesthouse.
DWAF enforces Minimum Requirements at all landfills, to ensure that existing salvaging is formalised and controlled.
Plant-induced bloat is usually of a frothy kind, the gas in the rumen being trapped in a stable foam which cannot be eructated by belching.
Ellis Park would pay for some of the contracted companies.
Isle of Capri operates pleasure cruises daily weather permitting, from Aliwal Street jetty.
The members also recovered five firearms, one shotgun and four pistols  belonging to the suspects, and a Renault vehicle.
The policein Batho launched a man hunt in a quest to remove illegal immigrants from their community.
WCED suspends three matric invigilators - Statement by Ron Swartz, Head of Education in the Western Cape.
He had, as a freelance contributor to the London Sunday paper, The Observer, interviewed the banned and restricted PAC leader Robert Sobukwe.
The operation was led by Supt Zithulele Sitholeof Bhekithemba detectives anddeemed asuccess.
In such a position as will be proper for the purpose of decency, and for avoiding unsightliness or nuisance there from.
He also became the chairperson of the Trust that oversaw Gandhi's Phoenix Settlement where Gandhi had carried out his social experiments of truth and non-violence.
Ex-colleagues, Dulcie Davids and Spasie Adams became involved in their respective areas soon afterwards.
But the Japanese invaders came overland by bicycle and attacked the British from the rear.
The LCRCs are responsible for investigating crime scenes, which includes the scientific collection of exhibits at such scenes.
Alternative mechanisms for partnerships, ranging from co-management to public-private partnerships, shall be explored.
Vegetable alkaloids, natural or reproduced by synthesis, and their salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives.
Police in Kimberley, Galeshewe and Roodepan are urging the public to expose criminals who are damaging and vandalising head stones.
To all Muslim and Jews: I wish you well for Eidul Fitr and Rosh Hashana.
Bongani Mvumvu is the new world champion in dressage for children after winning the Federasie Equestre Internationale world title in Hagen, Germany.
Durban enjoys a temperate, sub-tropical climate and is renowned for its mild and sunny winters.
Constable Du Toit and Terry are ecstatic over their recent successes, however, their excitement is clouded by the abandonment of a little girl.
To develop stronger linkages between the SMME sector and corporates.
The police succeeded in arresting three of the four suspects.
In the past week the Organised Crime detectives worked tirelessly, hoping to make further arrests and seizures.
His philosophy of non-violence characterized many of the struggles waged by our people against the system of apartheid.
Capt Perumal Pillay with blood bottle samples from the road block held in Newlands.
The Computer Society of South Africa is assisting Khanya through facilitating learnships into the Khanya Learnership Kickstart Programme.
The negotiating teams of Ehud Olmert, the Israeli prime minister, and Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, have been holding regular meetings since the Annapolis conference.
I was a Lieutenant Colonel in the then Police Services.
The police also recovered two stolen vehicles, a blue Mitsubishi Husky and a maroon Honda Ballade.
The reason for Mpofu's fixation on Brandfort became evident during the Richardson trial.
Though the deceased were both young, they lived their lives to the fullest.
PCBs and chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticide residues in birds and fish from the Wilderness lakes system.
One at the nearby Migdol and the other at Glaudina.
Advocates of human rights says it is important that the scourge of racism is dealt with holistically, coherently and comprehensively.
Due to the surrounding mines, many suspects are involved in operating illegal melting houses.
Thenjiwe Mtintso also graphically described how the fear of rape is always present for women detainees.
Inspector Michael Gojo and Inspector Lindela Makhapela arrested the suspects and recovered the stolen items.
Non-monetary items which are carried at fair value denominated in a foreign currency shall be reported using the exchange rates that existed when the values were determined.
However, two events stand out as some of the most defining moments in shaping the political direction of Mahatma Ghandi, and the launching of Satyagraha.
Local and international artist, William Kentridge, receives an honorary doctorate from the Maryland Institute of Contemporary Art in Baltimore, USA.
Crime Circumstances: Mr Mokone is sought by the SAPS in connection with an alleged rape case.
Maps are available from the Surveying and Land Information Department.
Put about half of the worms into the newly prepared worm box and the cycle will restart.
That is a problem that I do not know.
The station commissioner of Ekombe commended his members for the hard work they have done in recovering theillegal firearms and arresting the suspects.
Mapule Ramashala is going to administer the oath to them.
The police of Mokopanearrested two suspects,Diana and Khothatso Mashamaite for being in possession of suspected stolen copper cables.
Irrigation releases made from Clanwilliam Dam increase natural summer owes above Bulshoek Dam.
The three EU states indicated that they will not recognise Kosovo, that is Cyprus, Romania and Slovakia.
Articles of gut other than silk-worm gut, of goldbeater's skin, of bladders or of tendons.
Each nest has a silken hinge and lid and, in both cases, is perfectly disguised with debris.
Organisationally, the institute comprises a head and three coordinators, two of the posts presently being vacant.
The department is currently seeking High Court interdicts with claims for costs against conspicuous offenders.
The MTCR does not take export-licensing decisions as a group.
Inspector Mamaiti Lekgotla of Fouriesburg police station showing copper wire confiscated by Bethlehem dog unit.
This originally consisted of two racially segregated hospitals straddling the Liesbeeck and Black rivers.
Overexposure to ultraviolet  UV  radiation during childhood and adolescence, is well known and easily avoidable.
IFP members used to call me a coward.
The government is not engaging with Cosatu, but the PDC, of which Mr. Tony Ehrenreich is a member.
In fact, the same thing would apply to Pirates supporters.
Jean-Pierre Bemba will not come back to the country today or tomorrow, and no new date is yet scheduled, his spokesperson Moise Musangana said on Tuesday.
Most local residents, heavy with memories of Katrina, jammed evacuation routes.
There are no joys without the nightmares that precede them.
Silias Sebea, a humble comrade, a peace maker and negotiator, his body came lonely.
As all engineering drawings are microfilmed, the following standards are to be observed to ensure legible reproductions.
We want to be as generous as possible, Solana said.
It would have been impossible to listen to the tapes.
The member of the public saw the suspects setting alight a blue VW kombi, and called the police.
They obligingly sang Shosholoza when we requested the customary Venetian accompaniment to our cruise.
Incapacity of the employee is more onerous in these circumstances.
Supply of land-derived sediment and its dispersal in the Knysna estuary: and environmental appraisal.
Investigating Officer , Inspector Jeffrey Mlonyeni, described Zuko as a problematic young man in the area of Sterkstroom.
Rats would come into Mohamed's cell at night and eat the soiled pads.
With crowds of people comes the inevitable noise and isolated incidents of hooliganism.
She said the appeal might include neighbouring Burkina Faso, one of the world's poorest nations.
Subject therefore to the recall of Doctor Wouter Basson, these proceedings are adjourned sine die.
All statistics on complaints lodged are forwarded monthly to the H: SLES at the EMDC.
Film processing includes developing, printing and enlarging from client-taken negatives or motion pictures, whether for amateur photographers or for commercial clients.
Four high-tech mobile command centres will receive live footage from the airplanes and other cameras.
A gala dinner - to be addressed by the National Health Minister, Dr. Manto Tshabalala-Msimang and the Western Cape Premier, Mr. Ebrahim Rasool.
In a series of self-portraits Cindy Sherman shows various roles of women in society, films and the media.
Possibilities for joint and strategic collaboration in the beneficiation of precious metals were assessed.
His wife Asha, former wife Sam and four children and granddaughter survive Moodley.
Rebuttable evidence of the facts established by him or her.
Tanzania, Sudan, Senegal and Libya have provided troops for the mission.
The SAPS in Tsekiarrested a suspect from Leribe Villagefor assaulting his wife.
School principals of poorer schools are already raising this issue with us in our interactions with them.
It would be one of the Amphetamine series of compounds.
So it is not a fact that APLA was an unguided missile or a law unto themselves.
Inspectors Mhlungu and Sukude were commended for their bravery by the management of the Mayville SAPS.
Councillor Dumisani Ximbi, Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security will officiate at the event.
State Advocate Pedro van Wyk praised Insp. Stoffels for his excellent work on the case.
The impression is also very strong that the sinister hit-squads are recruited from their ranks.
But this requires both insight on their side, and understanding and constructive guidance from their superiors and peers.
Wireworms Elateridae and false wireworms Tenebrionidae are sporadic but potentially serious pests, and it is occasionally necessary to treat for these pests.
It details various incidents including the pre-election bombings and other violations committed by the right wing.
Two-wheel trailers attached to the forage harvesters tend to damage the harvesters' wheel bearings.
Last year's Emergency Hero Award Finalist, Const Zukisani Mpum, again made a mark by arresting three armed robbery suspects and recovering a firearm and stolen vehicle used by the robbers.
The motor vehicle used by the suspects was also impounded.
Constables Green and Group were then admitted to the Paarl Medi-Clinic in a stable condition.
Lepidopterist - an entomologist who specialises in the collection and study of butterflies and moths.
Ongoing interaction and awareness campaigns conducted with coastal communities and Observers and Honorary MCIs appointed.
This supply-side approach is intended to revitalise South African industry and to expedite the country's evolutionary progress up the so-called value chain towards competitiveness in more skills-intensive and technology-intensive products.
Molly Martin assisted Ruth Lewin and Odele Pearce who always helps with receiving the media.
Are you the instructing attorney to Mr Hlapo?
The ownerfollowed the suspect andpulled out a panga and stabbed the suspect in the back.
Inspector Bonita Dry at her happiest, behind her dockets looking for more clues.
Irreversible impacts and destruction of irreplaceable resources shall be discouraged or at least strictly controlled.
Singapore High Commissioner HE Mr. Benard during the presentation of letters of credence or commission to President Kgalema Motlanthe, Pretoria.
Operation Thiba prevent stop is an intelligence-driven, result-oriented, strategically-planned and ongoing operation.
Chatsworth police today welcomed an innovative aimed at tackling crime at grassroots level.
The descendants of the predeceased parent who left descendants, will inherit the entire intestate estate.
Chris Cleator employed Vanessa as a consultant to CKB and she reported to him.
Where there are several vintages of photography, the more recent is superimposed on the older vintage.
The Stilfontein and Sannieshof Police Stations also added to the figure by arresting six suspects.
Members of the media are invited to the handing out of accreditation stickers to metered taxis.
Reporters like Thandi Khubule, reporters like Norma Venda, who were alleged to be associated with the police at that time.
Librarian Ncumisa Mpayipeli organises weekly video shows and story-telling sessions.
Police also recovered two stolen handguns and the Volkswagen Polo allegedly used during the crime.
Acts of violence are reportedly perpetrated by security forces, youth militia, war veterans and supporters of both Zanu-PF and MDC.
Umbrella shelter for calf rearing, constructed from thatch or other light-weight suitable material.
I don't believe that we relied solely on the confessions.
He turned misery and self-pity into hard work and instilled the notion that you do not become a saint merely by looking at sacred images.
Incinerator cranes - move the refuse from the tipping pit to the entrance of the charging facility.
The work of the Presidency has been performed in a manner that meets the requirements of the state, writes Sholain Govender.
Members of the Thohoyandou Housebreaking Task Team made a major breakthrough when they arrested seven suspects who were terrorisingseven communities withhousebreaking.
South Africa is not residentially represented in the Dominican Republic.
The Station Commissioner of Queenstown, Assistant Commissioner Nikki Mlilwana, commended the professionalism and technological sophisticated expertise ofthe Queenstown detectives in particular Captain Joseph Stander and Inspector Louis Sinclair.
Strong mineral acids can react violently with organic compounds and bases.
At the time of their arrests, the relatives conspired to murder a person by the name of Lindele Gizani.
Provisioning Administrative clerks are stationed at South African Police Service: Logistics, countrywide.
Stanley Dludla unselfishly helps many Technikon students, requesting help, in his own time.
Trade liberalisation as a result of the Marrakech Agreement.
The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Task Team led by Supt Bayers Marx arrested three suspects for fraud.
In this regard, we again sincerely convey our heartfelt condolences to the Madlala and Ndabandaba families.
His Majesty, King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu, will also deliver an address at the event.
Endoscopic Camera System and light source  for the test of various endoscopic telescopes.
Fundamental principles of distinction between combatants and non-combatants and of proportionality in attacks must be respected.
Rare and threatened mammals such as the Cape clawless otter, Aonyx capensis, have also been recorded.
One of the suspects fired shots at the victims during the robbery, but no-one was injured.
By this time Nqakula was an underground operative for the ANC, specialising in propaganda.
Our congratulations go also to Litha Booi and Lungelo Dhladhla who complemented this success by taking the prizes for the Most Promising Actor and Most Promising Actress, respectively.
Specialist night reconnaissance sorties carrying SA Police and Army observers to assist ground forces navigation in townships.
Procurement of mental mathematics flip mini-books charts for the foundation and intermediate phase.
The vast Mkuzi swamp with its expansive reed beds and its pans covered in water lilies, and the large Mfabeni swamp forest.
Meetings are taking place at Madibeng to review the WSDP and WSA indicated that they will invite DWAF WSDP coordinators.
Head of Crime Prevention Unit SAPS Sydenham Capt Chule with the recovered firearms and BMW.
Minister of Foreign Affairs Alfred Nzo signs the convention in Ottawa banning landmines.
Grass and Karoo vegetation cover the open plains while besembush, wild olive trees and bush guarri are scattered over the koppies.
Periodic reweighting ensures that the CPI reflects changing trends in consumer buying patterns.
Dir Roberts said he would continue with a clampdown on nightclubs and bars.
Availability of accommodation in other hotels, bed-and-breakfast establishments and guest houses was catalogued.
The first battalion of these trained troops, the Rapid Reaction Battalion, were received by the DRC Defence Minister, Chikez Diemu last week.
I briefed you last week regarding the blue-hatting of the African Union Mission in Sudan.
A SADF vehicle detonated a land mine near Mbunzi in Eastern Transvaal.
Western sanctions have proven largely symbolic, the report adds, and British and American condemnations of President Robert Mugabe are, if anything, counterproductive.
A well-received new biography on the charismatic Hollywood actress Ava Gardner who played noir temptresses and big city vamps, but never the girl next door.
Metabolic disorders such as urea poisoning, and acidosis, often cause bloat in cattle.
My attitude would be that of not cooperating with informers and collaborators.
There are also fresh water paddling pools and a permanent funfair that attracts large numbers of people.
The liberalization of controls on cryptography and the development of market-based, user driven cryptography products and services.
AULAI President Seehaam Samaai gave an overview of the programme, including its objectives.
Night lunar operations with helicopters to combat SDU SPU activity, violence and crime.
SA government funded financial assistance for academically deserving and financially needy students.
Thus racism simultaneously was developed as ideological justification for enslavement and later colonization.
Gladwin Marumo as Chief Operating Officer and Michiel Naude as Chief Financial Officer of Sentech.
Hand-operated spanners and wrenches including torque meter wrenches but not including tap wrenches; interchangeable spanner sockets, with or without handles.
Insp. Maseyimani and Sgt Masimla, with the assistance of the Maletswai police, did an excellent job and are congratulated on the success.
It is possible to travel there via Douala and N'djamena with Toumai Air Chad.
Not to act in a way that could be interpreted as competing with the DSR Ministerial initiatives.
Goods recovered ranged from plasma screens, television sets, computers and microwave ovens.
Supply, deliver and install air conditioning extraction systems: Eerste River Hospital, Eerste River.
Washington - Hurricane Gustav landed on the US state of Louisiana on Monday, making its landfall on the southwest of New Orleans city, according to the National Hurricane Centre.
All suspects were detained at Hillbrow SAPS and some suspects are expected to appear in Hillbrow Magistrates Court depending on the seriousness of the case.
ICCAT also develops integrated monitoring and compliance measures and measures to combat illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing .
The killing of Sergeant Pretorius and two MK members, Maluleke and Mbnenge.
The establishment of the AU has given renewed impetus to the objective of building African unity.
He said Syria, represented at the meeting by Foreign Minister Walid Muallem, backed the call.
Herbage of the desired quality age of regrowth can be offered to animals by adjusting the number of camps or the period of regrowth following utilisation.
The provision of linkages between biophysical and socio-economic considerations within a sustainable development context.
Other paints and varnishes  including enamels, lacquers and distempers, prepared water pigments of a kind used for finishing leather.
The Department also coordinates and chairs the KZN Waste Minimisation Re-use and Recycling Forum.
There are two main operators promoting SA in Portugal: James Rawes and NovoTours.
Esselen Park Secondary School in Worcester is situated nearby a community of flats dwellers.
Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Nobel Peace prize laureate and leading anti-apartheid campaigner, has declared his support for Woodside Centre, providing the campaign with a major boost.
Vibey popular and reasonably priced Mexican food, with an upstairs bar.
The South African Embassy in Vienna, Austria, is accredited to Slovenia on a non-residential basis.
This subgroup includes wholesale trade in diamonds, pearls, other precious and semi-precious stones, jewellery, gold and silverware and medals.
She has created a good relationship with Bateshda kids club, who regularly conducts the weekly assemblies to motivate the learners spiritually.
It will be chaired by Junior Speaker, Vuyo Xulu from Milnerton High School.
South Africa is concerned about the humanitarian catastrophe unfolding in Iraq as a result of sanctions.
Previous speakers include successful businesswomen, Ms Hixonia Nyasulu, Minister Jeff Radebe, Ms Gugu Moloi, and many others.
On the crest of the monument subtly flowing and blending into the curves of the hill, nestles Sikhumbuto - the major memorial element.
State-owned Denel and three large private sector industrial groups - Altech, Reunert and Grintek, currently dominate the domestic defence market.
Sundry amusement establishments e.g. amusement parks, riding schools, skating rinks, etc.
Good hygiene and correct feeding practices will prevent infections by intestinal pathogens, including coccidiosis, colibacillosis and salmonellosis.
This setting determines the climatological, geological, oceanographic, hydrological and biological character of our coast.
Production and utilization of foggage from Smuts finger grass.
Andrew Zondo spoke with unmistakably sincere regret for the deaths which had occurred.
All fire-devastated areas will be treated as crime scenes to determine if arson was involved, Victorian Police Commissioner Christine Nixon said.
There are direct flights from Johannesburg to Douala and Yaounde with Air Cameroon.
President Barack Obama vowed Monday to halt the rise of piracy, as Somali pirates continue attacking and hijacking ships on the open sea.
The South African Institute for Aquatic Biodiversity  SAIAB  was born out of the pioneering marine fish taxonomy done by Professor JLB Smith and his co-workers.
We are home to two of the world-renowned biodiversity hotspots - the Cape Floral Kingdom and the Succulent Karoo.
And each and every one of them.
Foreign Secretary Miliband and Amb Mabuza arrive at the OR Tambo airport.
It is essential to RSVP in order to get the accreditations.
Regarding Iraq, Mr Obama highlighted in his inaugural speech that the US will responsibly begin withdrawal of troops and will work to forge hard-earned peace in Afghanistan.
One of the most spectacular game parks is in the Mahale mountains on Lake Tanganyika.
The car has been named after British physicist James Prescott Joule, who was best known for his research in electricity and thermodynamics.
In the wake of the Mumbai terror strikes, the Archaeological Survey of India  ASI  is considering beefing up security in and around the Taj Mahal.
There were seven rebel groups represented by high-level delegates, including the Sudanese Liberation Movement  SPLM  and the Justice and Equality Movement  JEM .
Lovely guesthouse in a country setting with independent guest wing, spaciously and luxuriously decorated - German, Zulu and English spoken.
During that era, schools were the reliable feeder to clubs and federations.
Mr Ban met with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and King Abdullah of Jordan on Wednesday to discuss the ceasefire mission.
This is a lingering result of the apartheid era .
Oberholster was arrested by Inspector Rudi du Toitof the Vryburg Detectives.
Prof Haysom, I would assume that you're supporting Mr Vally in that.
Supply, delivery and installation of a high performance liquid chromatograph tandem quadruple mass spectrometer configured for LC-MS MS analysis.
SAPS Mayville Management commended the four detectives for the manner in which they conducted the investigation that led to the arrests of the dangerous suspects.
The policeconfiscated four computers and two laptops which were used to fraudulently create documents.
Well the murderer of Stompie testified himself to the effect that that is ludicrous.
Second slave rebellion at the Cape led by Galant, a slave from the Koue Bokkeveld.
The Prince Albert Local Municipality covers Leeu Gamka, Klaarstroom and Prince Albert.
Establishing a kikuyu pasture from seed is slower than establishing with vegetative material.
Any amount exceeding this will require the authorization of the Bangko Central Pilipinas  BSP .
The military machinery was led by Thenjiwe Mthintso, Patrick Mavundla  Naledi , and Dan.
The Kroonstad Police Cluster Operation includes stations such as Steynsrus, Vierfontein, Maokeng, Heuningspruit and the Kroonstad SAPS.
A lovely, lyrical debut novel about two Irish families - a dreamy, passionate story for those readers who enjoy a touch of magic realism.
Photographic plates, film, paper, paperboard and textiles, exposed but not developed.
The Mitchells Plain Sub Council serves six wards, including Strandfontein.
Deputy President Mlambo-Ngcuka is also scheduled to pay a courtesy call on Crown Prince Naruhito who is the eldest son of Emperor Akihito.
Calendering or other rolling machines, other than for metals or glass, and cylinders therefore.
Members of the Board of the Airports Company  ACSA , chaired by Mr Tommy Oliphant.
Archbishop Tutu is in Adis Abeba and will be there until the end of the week.
This is an experimental instrument that ventures gently into the field of matrix management.
In Reno, South Africa will be represented by two young students from Johannesburg, Bradley Pieter Rautenbach and Sean Daly.
The dwarf thicket on the shallow sand over limestone is unique to the BCA.
Even DA spokesperson Willem Doman recently acknowledged that my department had delivered even though we have the most complex and dynamic environment.
Foreign citizens who wish to visit Moldova may apply for entry exit visas at Moldovan diplomatic missions and consulates accredited abroad.
Family-favourite franchise that serves very reasonably priced steaks and burgers.
The closing ceremony featured entertainment by the popular Durban musicians, Big Nuz, DJ Tira and DJ Rice as well as some aspiring local acts.
The convoy that was carrying rations for UNAMID personnel in West Darfur, had come under sustained fire from light weapons and rocket propelled grenades.
The abolition of the apartheid legacy will require considerable effort over a considerable period of time.
They will be regularly reviewed, and will be formally appraised and updated on an annual basis.
Widened innovation chasm and potential retrogression on national science and technology progress.
This report has been reviewed internally by MarkData  Pty  Ltd. and the Department of Transport.
OnFriday night, youths attacked shops of foreigners in Letsopa outside Ottosdal.
Starting at the Goodwood Library Gardens, Cllr Vos will proceed to the area behind Shoprite Centre in Hugo Street, and continue to Vasco Boulevard in Goodwood.
The project will enhance pedestrian and cycling facilities along Waterkant and envisages the building of two pedestrian bridges at Buitengraght.
Technological innovations must be made more easily available to modernise and revitalise economies.
Tools and technology produce considerable efficiencies by simplifying complex processes and accelerating otherwise time consuming tasks involved in ERM.
The Department is currently auditing seemingly false licences issued in Stellenbosch, Worcester, Khayelitsha, Vredenburg and Caledon.
Because they would have been handed in to ticket web for a ticket for the BOB final.
To complicate the investigation, the suspect was not a well known person around the Indermark area .
Mrs Sofia van Eeden from Clarens at her house with D Insp. Machobane Mngomezulu where the suspect entered and stole her jewellery in the bedroom.
The inference that TVET is limited to just simple, manual demonstrations of skill or competence has seriously dented its reputation and undervalued its worth.
This is not self-classification, and is often based on the prejudices of the classifier, thereby tending to perpetuate these prejudices.
The radical idea of a virtual carbon-neutral launch has a light environmental footprint.
Tuition is done through the use of multimedia technology - televisions, CCTV, video-projectors, etc.
Led by Deputy Provincial Commissioner Celiwe Binta and the Provincial Head of Training, Director Rosina Mulaudzi, the women were focussed and committed.
Mr. Phillip Dlabantu for uplifting and promoting up and coming musicians and actors, from disadvantaged communities and improving their quality of life.
The participation of State-owned airlines in a deregulated domestic market has been debated at various forums over the past few years, and needs to be resolved.
Sectional title flats will be rated individually as per the MPRA.
The more important species include umbila, jambirre, chanfuta, and African sandalwood.
Members of the media are invited to attend a cocktail reception in honour of the Verdanta Institute hosting the visit of Swami Parthasarathy hosted by the eThekwini Mayor Obed Mlaba.
Excellent examples of petrified wood can also be found along with dinosaur footprints.
When storing burdizzo's it is best to leave the jaws open in order to prevent wear on the edges of the jaws.
The Health-Care Waste Minimisation Club programme is a capacity-building programme to promote better management of health-care waste in health-care institutions.
Recurring themes and motives will be identified, and we look at the legacy of The Master of Suspense.
This integrated crime intelligence-driven operation was initiated by the Commander of the Organized Crime Unit, Senior Supt RS Aiyer.
Issued jointly by the dti, Seda, and the Alfred Nzo District Municipality.
The manufacture of auxiliary plant for use with boilers, such as economisers, super-heaters, steam collectors and accumulators.
The Black Consciousness Movement of Azania  BCMA and its military wing, the Azanian National Liberation Army  AZANLA .
The appointment of impartial and capable persons as executors, trustees, curators and liquidators.
He also acknowledged the important role of the Oudtshoorn AeroClub and Oudtshoorn Municipality, who assisted with the building of the new hangar.
Vandals have painted the word Murderer on the walls of the eThekwini Municipality's KwaMuhle Museum.
She was with Jimmy Mouton the day he was called in to judge chambers.
Come be a part of a vocal and pianistic adventure through many octaves, featuring the unique talents of Rory Rootenberg of Phantom of the Opera.
When the young man spotted Detective Constables Leon van Belling and Sicelo Vinqihe suddenly looked veryworried.
New partnerships with financial institutions will be explored and the micro-finance sector will be mobilised in support of entrepreneurship and productive activities.
Tracker and tactical training courses are presented to dog handlers and their dogs.
Work towards synergism integrated and segregated  in water resource management on a catchment basis.
Susan Ferguson was the Project Officer and Mary Morudu was the Administration Officer.
Jae's second album G.I Jae, a collaborative effort with talented maestro, Verdi, is more assertive than her first album and reflects a young woman growing in success and confidence.
This has been viewed as a steppingstone to address the difficulties that tourist guides face daily due to Illegal Guiding.
We have heard that the PSL Security is made up of an Orlando Pirates contingent and a Kaizer Chiefs contingent, is that correct?
Beef feeding simulation model  NSBFT  for use on the Burroughs mainframe computer.
President Obama won the key states of Virginia, Ohio and Pennsylvania, securing him his seat in the White House.
The situation in Kinshasa is calm but tense but there has been a return to normality.
He says that he was responsible for the death of Mr Sitelo Lomo because he suspected Mr Lomo of being a police informer.
The manufacture of sugar confectionery such as boiled sweets, toffees, marshmallows, fudge, caramels, cachous, nougat, fondants and white chocolate.
Integrated pest and disease management  IPDM  of apples and pears in KwaZulu-Natal.
A speech by the President of the Italian Republic, Mr Giorgio Napolitano will also be delivered.
Ms Mariann Clarkson, the teacher at Eldoraigne High School, accompanied her.
From Jai Ho to Gimme Hope Jo'anna, the IPL closing ceremony mesmerised South Africans, giving them a taste of Indian and African culture.
A case of murder is being investigated byDetectives at the SAPS Mbongolwane.
Police believe that the two suspects were involved in the black dollar and herbalist scams.
In turn, Gwebu's brother pointed a finger at the other suspects.
Rationalisation and restructuring to ensure a unified, integrated and leaner public service.
We hope that the meeting that is currently underway in New York, chaired by the Secretary-General will emerge with concrete details on how to unpack the broader agreement.
Department of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Nomfanelo Kota told BuaNews that Faghmi and Mari were the only South Africans in the hotel.
Poor quality roughage generates a lot more heat than highly digestible rations.
He also congratulated the investigation team for their relentless effortsin pursuing the case.
The suspect allegedly broke into houses and committed general theft.
The development of a counter-revolutionary guerrilla force which is employed according to guerrilla tactics to annihilate revolutionary guerrillas and take control over the population.
This Trinity trilogy is terrific - I was immersed in the books for days.
In his report, Bowen said the handing over of completed US-funded rebuilding projects to the Iraqi government has been off the rails for about a year.
Police divers recovered the body of three-year-old girl - allegedly drowned by her father.
Yusuf Dadoo hospital, formerly known as Paardekraal, is named after Yusuf Mahomed Dadoo, a political activist who fought against racial discrimination and apartheid.
We didn't use heavier calibres, AAA and birdshot, that's what we used.
Swim only in the demarcated areas which are marked by red and yellow flags.
Pope Benedict XVI has voiced his dismay over the turmoil in Iraq and described the country as torn apart by continual slaughter.
Reconstruction and repair of four flood-damaged river crossing structures in the Swellendam Area.
Projects in these operational areas are supervised by contracted Zenzele project managers.
Mayor Mlaba extends his heartfelt condolences to the Khanyile family, friends and relatives during these trying moments.
The City also contracted an International Corrosion Control and Cathode Protection expert, Dr. DL Van Oostendorp to peer review the studies undertaken by PPT.
All known suspected mined areas as well as all development sites have been cleared of land mines and unexploded ordnance.
Purposeless movement, these include hand flapping, head rolling, body rocking, or spinning a plate.
Consultations by inmates with the medical orderlies could also take place during this period.
To determine the vesting-, growth-, survival-, and yield reaction of canola at different row widths and plant densities.
When they are not attacking the people they are encouraging, siding with and arming the ultra-right forces, warlords and vigilantes.
Accommodation caters for all tastes and pockets, and ranges from simple camping sites to luxurious five-star hotels.
The growing of hop cones, chicory roots or roots and tubers with a high starch or insulin content.
Our chaplains prayed for our victory, and our universities educated us in war.
The overspending can mainly be ascribed to equipment that were replaced urgently.
Talking battle-fields, he says the trip to Cuito Cuanavale in Angola where the erstwhile mightiest South African army suffered a humiliating defeat is still on track.
The structures were manned by members trained internally and in neighbouring states.
The station Commissioner of Point SAPS, Director Ndlovu, appreciated the good work done by Inspector To You Shabangu, Constable Mpendulo Sibiya, Constable Hloni Ngcobo and Norma Ngcobo.
Hamas itself carries out periodic rocket firing and regular mortar fire.
Our Head, Dr Harold Wesso, was named runner-up IT Personality of the Year.
The building of pleasure boats designed to accept inboard or outboard motors or to be propelled by wind, paddles or oars.
Exco approved closing the Bisaser Road Landfill site and a strategy for the burning of methane gases being redirected away from the communities situated near the site.
King Sandile was the son of King Ngqika and his wife, Suthu, of the Great House.
Meet Leseja Senona, the first black police officer in Tshwane to train with the federal Bureau of Investigations  FBI  in the US.
Basetsana Khumalo, also known as Julia Makgalemele, is crowned Miss South Africa.
Moral Regeneration Movement  MRM  Provincial Chairperson, Rev. M.Xundu and MRM Coordinator in the Department Rev. V. Stefano were amongst the dignitaries who attended the event.
That the maternal mortality is reduced by three quarters, and under-five child mortality by two-thirds, of their current rates.
With due respect, you are veering on dangerous grounds Doctor Wouter Basson.
We will continue to call on the Palestinian Authority to stop all rocket attacks against Israel.
Western Cape Minister for Community Safety Leonard Ramatlakane has reacted with disappointment to acquittal of high-flyer gangster Mujahid Daniels at the Cape High court.
The dagga was from Lesotho and was destined to be sold in the Itsoseng area.
CITES is conceptually limited to prevent the overexploitation of international traded wildlife.
CPI, PPI, trade volumes and more, presented by Central Statistical Services.
The CWWC advises the NPC on the implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention  CWC .
Marius Garbers is in charge of the overall marketing and PR of TISSA.
Upgrading of Groblersdal WTW Doubling of rising main to Tafelkop Rising Main to Sterkfontein Lukau.
I think the interpreter meant Chris Hani, not Chris Hanekom.
The meeting will kick-start a series of engagements with the stakeholders affected by the BRT system.
Moves are afoot to curb the spread of HIV AIDS in KwaZulu-Natal.
We were commuting on a bus from Escort bacon factory, which is in Heidelberg.
The suspect is facing charges armed robbery and possession of unlicensed firearm.
Kloof Gold Mine celebrates the achievement of yet another million fatality-free shifts.
They have already gained Euro gap and Fairtrade export status and are already exporters of apples, pears and citrus and delivers wine grapes to a well-known winemaker.
When he was admitted to Sterkfontein, he had sceptic sores on his ankles and these for many of you who will know, are signs of pellagra, not mental illness.
In this regard, I would like to thank the Hon Dr Stanley Mogoba for helping to unravel this mystery.
Zimbabwe's power-sharing agreement has secured a new beginning for the country, steering it away from years of economic and humanitarian despair, writes Bathandwa Mbola.
Hay made when fescue is less palatable for grazing, is very palatable.
Secure large furniture that could be tipped over and soften all sharp corners.
As a result of the above, human societies will need to adapt to future climatic regimes.
We have evidence that Stompie Seipei was accused of having been an informer.
Two counts of murder, including intentionally directing attacks against the civilian population.
The ANC has acknowledged that in a number of instances breaches in policy did occur, and deeply regrets civilian casualties.
Mr Vally has urgently gone to answer the call of nature and apologises.
Cape Town has an impressive and constantly evolving urban environment.
Government will introduce a deregulated oil industry as predetermined milestones are achieved.
Dr Ivan Meyer kicks off the recent Property Management strategic planning session that was held at Houwhoek near Grabouw.
A cheerful and eager crowd had gathered in Tiananmen Square since the early morning, holding high the red Chinese national flags and Olympic flags.
He lured her into the nearby bushes where he threatened and assaulted her.
Two attackers robbed Mr Mtshiselwa of his cell phone after the shooting.
Mr Qureshi said that the involvement of foreign elements could not be ruled out in the attack on Sri Lankan cricket team.
A brief expos on the candidature of Ambassador Minty is attached.
Linked to this was the use of state-sanctioned 'hit squads' in extra-legal terror and assassinations by the Civil Co-operation Bureau and Vlakplaas police unit.
The Dreamworld Record of Decision  RoD  was appealed by the Wildlife and Environmental Society of SA  WESSA  and Cape Nature.
Seven sites in some of our poorest communities, including Khayalitsha, Mitchells Plain , Delft and Bitterfontein, have been identified.
Sen Supt Eugene van der Merwe opening the first gate to the prison.
People with disabilities are therefore pitied, given handouts and cared for in separate institutions.
MHQ was also extended, with the appointment of a number of deputies at HQ level.
I want to read the ECC Declaration because it sums up the mission of the campaign.
May I, at the outset thank Her Excellency, the High Commissioner Lindiwe Mabuza for her kind and generous introduction as well as for hosting this auspicious occasion.
Templates to be enlarged to a size which will fit your display area.
Despite our collective intentions, racism continues to be our common bedfellow.
Divisional Commissioner de Beer of Detective Services, with great pride heard the tributes attentively and with sheer satisfaction, handed out certificates to deserving members.
The Council is suffering staggering losses as a result of the persistent theft of electricity in the townships.
The instruments of accession shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
This stark reality provides a fertile environment for conflict, instability and underdevelopment.
These same points were debated by General Oelschig at the Msane trial.
The Sri Lankan team was scheduled to begin their third-day play with the Pakistani team in their second Test Match when the attack occurred.
Sergiusis an institute aimed at strengthening civil society and promoting social capital in the Ukraine.
Within minutes of meeting Mr. Daya, you are a lifelong convert to the hand-stitched buttonhole and the double French cuff.
Mr Larijani also said he will hold talks with the EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana in the future.
The number of characters that can be wrongly spelled in a word can be specified.
This insatiable appetite and the concomitant aggression to satisfy it led to the colonial and imperial invasions of vast areas of land in Asia, Africa and the Americas.
Senior Supt Nayager said the officers proceeded to a place called Two Shops.
The African Institute for Mathematical Sciences is launched in Muizenberg, Cape Town.
The Commission calls General Lothar Neethling and Mr Vally will take over the examination.
This, also, is the home of Pixley ka Isaka Seme, the patriot and co-founder of the African National Congress.
The meeting came after Rwanda reacted to DRC's plan to disarm FDLR, which Kigali said was lacking, and for which it provided a counter-proposal.
They are not pathogenic disease-causing , but are indicators of the possible presence of pathogens.
The Marian hill landfill site is situated in Marian hill in the Inner West Region.
Universal franchise alone will not undo decades of oppression and racism.
I am sorry, this is Norman Kades, appearing on behalf of the Asvat family.
The rightful owner of the parts were traced and he positively identified the goods.
James Slabbert introduces the newly formed Property Evaluation Committee.
It is sent to Mr J Schlosch at Computicket from Mr Tidiella.
Studies on the reclamation and utilisation of the thornveld in the Muden area of Natal.
Coastal infrastructure in respect of the Umdloti North Beach seawall needs urgent repair.
This handy booklet on SoE reporting was developed by Grid Arendal.
He roped in Sergeant Mthethwa to assist him in searching for the suspect.
Kalkfontein Primary in Kuilsriver presented an amazing sight last night.
Seerane is the former chief whip of the ANC's Mogale City councillors.
The only solution is a negotiated solution in the interests of Sri Lankan people.
The Stilfontein policealso added to the figure by arresting three suspects.
Pioneer of three rural pre-schools in Ciskei based on Dr Francis Wilson's findings on poverty.
But as to the condemnation of the actions of the government of Myanmar, we are not doubtful.
Roof water can also be profitably stored in tanks for watering gardens.
Lister Mooi along with Ugandan prison officials were responsible for guarding the prisoners.
The one-day event will host install-fests and display stands where members of the public can bring their PCs or laptops for installations and demonstration.
Senior Supt Nayager said ongoing drug enforcement operations would continue.
Offer policy makers insights into tourism and its socio-economic functions and impacts.
The first part of Winnie Mandela's plan for Katiza Cebekhulu at Paul Verryn's manse did not work out.
The vehicle was abandoned in Tubelos Place, Avian Park in Worcester where the police arrested one of the suspects.
Phil Masinga and Mark Fish, the former South African internationals who played in Italy for Bari and Lazio respectively, joined the Italians at this occasion.
This clinic operates in the Caledon Hermanus Health District of the Boland Region.
Both suspects were charged with possession of a unlicensed firearm and ammunition.
The South African Government is apprehensive about the humanitarian crisis and safety of civilians in Sri Lanka.
Media Briefing by Amb Grobler to the media on the upcoming SA-EU Troika and the visit by Min.
Using a grinder and other housebreaking equipment such as gloves, crowbars and balaclavas, the suspects had already bored a hole in the wall when police cornered them.
The top three learners were Joyce Feretelo, who got four distinctions, Thoko Bell and Lerato Ditiri, who took home three distinctions each.
This hospital operates in the Caledon Hermanus Health District of the Boland Region.
The implication again is that whatever Commandant de Bruin was looking at was supplied to him by Brig Basson.
Inanda Seminary is renowned for teaching young women how to be leaders.
It could either be Brigadier Coetzee or Colonel van der Merwe.
Annual subscriptions must be renewed timeously to avoid a break in delivery.
Negative impacts on the freshwater environment may be divided into ecological impacts and impacts on human use of the resource.
The story of Neal Petersen, one of South Africa's unsung achievers, testifies to the life-changing potential of libraries.
Chromosomes, genes, and DNA-the building blocks of life determine the uniqueness of each individual and each species.
As part of its Greening Programme the South Durban Basin has upgraded the Calicut Place View Site by erecting concrete benches and landscaping.
But Dr Akoojee always checked up on me and the community was very supportive.
In the business and entrepreneurship category Nozolo Lumbe from Philippi East won.
In Uitenhage, it's a wide-width coating plant.
The suspects are expected to appearin the Mankweng Magistrates' Courtsoon.
However, the worst exposures to total suspended particulates occur in coal-burning households in unelectrified and partly electrified urban areas, and wood-burning households in rural areas.
Former politician Frederick van Zyl Slabbert co-founds Khula, a private investment company with black majority shareholding.
There are a few quarries near Gonubie which extract sand for the building industry.
In the camps, bizarre incidents of indiscipline by a minority of cadres had started to play themselves out.
The AU principles to be effective must also be adopted by the sub-regional groupings.
Some of these new areas, including Genetic Modification and cloning, are controversial.
In that Address he quoted from a poem by Ingrid Jonker.
Successful candidates receive attractive salaries, which include accommodation, as well as other benefits - pre-paid lights, performance bonuses, et cetera.
The two wide-eyed burglars immediately came out of their hiding places and surrendered.
NSM were detached to the Department of Water Affairs to assist with projects of water provision.
In the past the integration of gender equality has often featured as an afterthought.
Mr Bruce will tell the story of SAVA, the South African Veteran Association.
Clubs will be hoping for increased attendances on the back of the World Cup.
You know the game started at roughly eight o'clock as scheduled?
Broader obligations to protect peace-keeping and other UN and humanitarian missions have been imposed on parties to a conflict.
That was our Declaration of Intent and it captures neatly the objectives of the organisation.
Saeb Erakat, chief Palestinian negotiator, said some of the money would be earmarked to help ease the deteriorating humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip.
Both Mr Sujan Miah and Nur Dulal  are still in custody on charges of murder and defeating the ends of justice.
Colon and prostate cancers are associated with diets high in fat.
A large family-run restaurant offering Greek buffets and eat-as-much-as-you-like specials.
There are no recognized rare, threatened or endangered plant species in the area but there are some endemics such as Gladiolus vaginatus and Satyrium princeps, among others.
Only offenders who pose a serious threat to society should be imprisoned.
Commercial and sport fisheries have depleted stocks of some marine species.
Did you see any of the APS guards with grenades on their belts?
He is the brother to Zinzi's eldest daughter.
Appropriate timetables must let employers manage these costs without indefinitely delaying equity.
Every month St Georges Park hosts the Arts in the Park where residents sell everything from handmade goodies to delicious treats and snacks.
In the case of the URP, projects should end within the time-frame of the URP.
We had Doctor Koekemoer who testified that Baxil was the code name they used for MDMA which is called ecstasy.
Forestry lowers the water table and could lead to salt-water intrusion.
The investigating officers Insp. FL Erasmus and Const AA Brophy ensured that a monster will spent several years behind bars.
Where the soil varies markedly over short distances rotational grazing should be used.
Now would you agree with me that the throwing of teargas is a culpable act?
The monetary unit is the Dirham, divided into hundred centimes.
IASP adopts a range of methods to control invasive alien plants.
Rubber bullets and stun grenades, those are the two you want to use?
These clubs will be afforded basically everything to equip them for competitiveness.
Once outside the tavern, they started assaulting him by beating and kicking him.
The Director General has released my letter to Judge Wilhelm Heath to the public.
Restructuring will take place in terms of the Government policy on rationalisation of State-owned assets.
The Station Commissioner of Ezakheni commended the members on their outstanding successes.
You say the stun grenades should have been used as well as rubber bullets.
The park-and-ride will be running from Wemmerpan, Bezuidenhout Park, and Wits University's West Campus.
Rendering of cleaning services at Paarl District Office for a three-year period.
Poor catchment management impacts negatively on the coastal environment and lake systems.
The three suspects were arrested by Sergeant Ngonyama and Constable Moodley while they tried to escape over the house's high electric-fenced wall.
The PTIP builds on work already being undertaken by my Department.
Crime Information Analysts are stationed at the Crime Intelligence Offices countrywide.
The fact that the National Commissioner and his deputies pledged their support was a highlight.
It can only be used on the islands of Sao Tome and Principe.
I met Vusile, Mkotcho made a contact for me with Vusile.
Members of the Centre attended a conference on Risk Based Approach to AML  CFT.
Pelo and others came from Parys and others have seen him in Parys.
In many respects we live with the legacies of that destabilisation that took place.
Flail or double chop forage harvesters should be correctly set to avoid soil and dung contaminating the silage.
Mechanisation and industrialisation of agriculture have contributed to increasing environmental impacts.
An Italian restaurant that is popular for business lunches and dinners.
Pali Lehohla is South Africa's statistician-general and the head of Statistics SA.
Let me first start with a quotation from a poem by Lebanese poet Gibran Khalil Gibran, that I found befitting for today's occasion.
It was precipitated by certain very unfortunate incidents in which the residences of ministers were being attacked, he said.
The Library has extensive special collections of rare books, artworks, historical maps, manuscripts, photographs and other materials and artefacts.
Mines and alluvial diggings engaged in the extraction of diamonds.
Wear eye protection, good quality sunglasses protect against UV rays.
You see, cross-examination is a little more than the cross-examiner just accepting an answer.
The best Stock Theft Unit investigator, D Insp. Jurie Hayes, also came out of the Malmesbury Stock Theft Unit.
Finding mechanisms of consolidating service delivery in getting maximum outcomes.
The use of non-detectable landmines has been prohibited subject to an optional deferral period of nine years from entry into force .
However, rumours that Shabalala was to follow former ANC warlord Sifiso Nkabinde's example and join the United Democratic Front did not materialise.
Minimisation and or avoidance of the transfer of pollutants from one medium to another.
Sectored policies recognise linkages and overlaps in related economic sectors.
Where was the game held between Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates?
Which is also part of the loneliness and perpetuates the conspiracy of silence.
The public is once again alerted to the ban on open fires.
Dr Basson, you made an assertion that I was factually incorrect.
I'll go out in the frosty dark and sing most terribly.
Action was also taken in Bellville South, another drag racing hotspot.
The Kuils River Police was alerted and the First Team - Detective Inspector Mike Thebus and Detective Constable Stoffel Matroos - arrived on the scene to take on the case.
The category winner for arts and culture was Evelyn Koopman from Belhar.
Tractor rides and horse trails take visitors deep into the heart of the forests, while boardwalks lead sightseers to a Khoisan cave and the hanging bridge at Storms River Mouth.
Let me first start with a quotation from a poem by Lebanese poet Gibran Khalil Gibran, that I found befitting for today's occasion.
Furthermore, in working, in transforming the world, you are extending the practice of freedom.
If the parenthesis enclosed that observations were made during an empty stadium.
The role of the public sector has featured prominently in all the preceding chapters.
Sentencing Beneza Allah last week in the Grahamstown High Court, Judge Zamani Mhlongulela called the crime a horrendous and callous attack.
There is a passive education programme in the form of displays, labelled plant samples, etc.
Supply of labour for road maintenance teams at Ashton, Botrivier, Caledon, Stanford and Worcester.
Capacity constraining links and nodes including intermodal facilities should be identified.
Speaking to reporters, Holmes said no one can be absolved of harming civilians and aid workers: not the rebels, nor the government forces.
Then you get the remarks of Brig Basson which says, the three that he had they are later given to Commandant de Bruin because they are now deactivated.
Mined and prospected areas need to be rehabilitated to create opportunities for future use.
Totals include the 'unspecified' category of energy for cooking variable.
Other salts of inorganic acids or peroxo acids including aluminosilicates whether or not chemically defined, other than azides.
Use all perishable foods that are precooked or ready-to-eat as soon as you can.
Congratulations to Constables Ishmael Letlojane, Thabo Rakate and MJ Mofokeng for adding yet another success to their already long list.
Ehud Olmert, the Israeli prime minister, had floated the idea last week.
Difficulty in translating the lDP into an organisational scorecard, and cascading it down into individual scorecards.
Orthotics - Medical science dealing with specialized mechanical devices to support or assist weakened or abnormal joints or limbs.
Fourthly the spirit of lawlessness and the disregard of authority as transpired from the revolution of the methods used by our opponents.
Processing of the Environmental Management Programme Reports will be expedited.
Inspector Bennie Cloeteof the Potchefstroom Detective Branch handled the investigation.
You have edit rights over your own messages but it is respectful to others to indicate within the message that it has been edited.
The event was punctuated by the Tlhatswang ka Diatla Cultural dance group, which entertained the audience with Setswana rhythmic moves and dance.
Master plan to align bulk infra requirements in Nzikasi and Nkomazi.
Chartwell Drive is the main thoroughfare of Umhlanga's commercial centre.
Organisational re-design process aimed at building institutional capacity in support of the main thrusts of the Ikapa Elihlumanyo Strategy.
Leafhoppers belonging to the family Jassidae transmit streak virus in maize.
The old house, outbuildings and slave bell have survived and form part of the Elsenburg College of Agriculture campus.
During interrogation, it was established that Caba allegedly stole the firearm in the Buffelshoek area, not far from Potchefstroom, where he was previously working.
They focussed on problematic buildings, taverns and shebeens within the precinct.
And Colonel de Jager in his turn would have liaised with his equal and coordinated the information on that basis.
If Delta-G is a subsidiary of Medchem as a front company as Kowolsky is a subsidiary of Medchem, I fail to understand why you say Medchem wasn't a front company.
Favouring incompetents and the defence of mediocrity must become part of our past.
President Kgalema Motlanthe to receive credentials from designated Heads of Mission.
The victims were supposed to be collaborators with the government.
The CIFAL Durban Training program was officially launched last night.
We would be deeply honoured to reciprocate your cordial and warm hospitality and would be delighted if your Excellencies could grace our lovely shores in the not too distant future.
Under the command of Inspector Marcus Ferreira, this team consisting of, Sergeant Amos Seeco, and Constables Izak Blom and Elisha Moshoeshoe, aresurely leaving their mark in closing unsolved cases.
Currents of contrast is an excellent book and is definitely a worthwhile addition to our library stock.
President Motlanthe lauded the senior national soccer team - Bafana Bafana - for their recent performances.
Family Group Conferences are one of the many restorative justice mechanisms used to reintegrate young offenders into society.
If we do not address this challenge urgently, we will continue to have pockets of technological excellence that hardly translate into widespread economic benefit.
Raw milk for human consumption usually originates from unapproved and or uninspected farms, which are not monitored for the presence of drug residues such as antibiotics.
Officials from the Department of Health will not complete courier waybills on behalf of prospective bidders.
The Station Commissioner of Queenstown, Assistant Commissioner Nikki Mlilwana, applauded the assistance received from the Nomzamo community in the arrest of the suspects.
Locals have nicknamed the most populous city in South Africa Joburg, Jozi and eGoli.
Tableholder means a bona fide farmer authorised to occupy a table.
The sweeter taste makes it possible to use in its raw form, in salads, hors d'oeuvres, on sandwiches and in fillings.
It is a good yarn, with a plot that twists deeper and deeper.
We're talking about production, we're not talking about studies, we're not talking about experiments.
The suspect allegedly hit Mr van Schalkwyk on the head with the stick.
Another level that needs to be explored much more robustly is creating conducive environment for the tourist-guides to thrive.
Install a low-flow shower head and tap aerators on all taps.
The onus rests on us to take advantage of these opportunities by diversifying our economies and reducing supply-side constraints.
Establishment of coastal tourism and recreational facilities is uncoordinated and unregulated.
Four getaway vehicles used by suspects were recovered following a cash-in-transit heist at Bracken downs this afternoon.
The hand-picked teamis probing case dockets to check whether the suspects could be linked to other crimes.
The Deputy Minister of Education Enver Surty will officially launch the strategy.
The negative stereotypes depicted of other nationalities and communities should be done way.
Tender documents will be available from the office of the District Roads Engineer, Bon Chretien Street, Oosterlig, Ceres.
Another noteworthy initiative is the establishment of the Makeba Centre for Girls by our Goodwill Ambassador, Miriam Makeba.
Remediation entails retroactive intervention to achieve reversal of environmental damage.
The suspect then produced a firearm and fired one shot.
Two Toyota Run-X motor vehicles were handed over to the SAPS.
The Kayamandi informal settlement is one of the poorest suburbs of Stellenbosch.
Obtained from any Lao PDR Embassy abroad before arriving in the country.
Reworking and regravelling of roads in the Cape Winelands District Municipality Area.
Visit the department on corner of Ryke and Worchester Streets, Grabouw.
When the vehicle came to a halt, both the suspects jumped from the vehicle and disappeared in the bushes alongside the road.
The death at Bulhoek, at Alexandra, in New Brighton, at Sharpeville, in Soweto, at Sebokeng and in Shobashobane - they too become part of an imagined tragedy that never was.
The technology level should be appropriate, driven by affordability and cost-effectiveness.
The Table Mountain National Park will also supply emergency crews once alerted.
Abalone - An edible sea-creature with an ear shaped shell lined with mother of pearl.
The vegetation of the Wilderness lakes system and the saprophyte encroachment problem.
The two suspected hijackers were under police guard in hospital after they had sustained gunshot wounds.
Premier Peters also launched the Victims Charter in her address.
The learners were from the Nsikazi, White River and Sikhulile circuits.
Since the suspect was not known, identity kits were compiled.
Only then will the hard-won peace in Burundi be irreversible.
I honestly hope even you do not believe in the lunatic statement that has been made by Cebekhulu.
Payment of reparations to victims of political violence and human rights violations.
Traffic flow will only be open on the Westbound carriageway.
This experienced task team was led by Senior Supt Madonsela.
Mr Tom Manthata and Piet Meiring will now facilitate the presentation of the focus groups.
The trauma implanted in his sub-conscious mind the menace of the growl of the approaching motor car of the security police and turned every engine's sound into a threatening purr.
The picture shows famous Durbanite Ranjith Kally's picture 'Grandma gives a bath'.
The Sappi Lomati woodworking plant is one of the largest in the country.
Water conservation can be more costly as it is more management- and labour-intensive.
MaSisulu epitomises courage, resilience and an unwavering commitment to freedom and a relentless pursuit of a better life for all.
Basis for Rational Planning: Quantitative, rationally designed measurements and evaluation of pollution phenomena can be used by both Government and industry as a basis for policy-making, regulation and mitigation.
The South African government condemns the assassination attempt against the Somalian Prime Minister.
It will resume with visits to Mahatma Primary and Everest Heights Primary Schools in Phoenix and Verulam after the Easter school break.
She will share the chairmanship with the Basque Government's Sabin Intxaurraga, Minister of Land Planning and the Environment.
Exchange control has been eliminated to mobilise extra funds for the EPZ sector and interest rates are market-driven.
Well-motivated budgetary forecasts and proposals will emerge from this exercise.
The Quartet looks forward to welcoming Mr. Blair at its next meeting.
This includes landscaping along major through routes and major intersections.
Chemical wood pulp, soda or sulphate, other than dissolving grades.
Tribe Bhengu received the young achievers award from the SAIEE.
The South African government urges the international community to have unconditional dialogue with the Palestinian Unity Government and to lift all sanctions against the Palestinian government.
Canada, our ally against apartheid, has become our strongest partner as we confront the challenges of underdevelopment.
Any old textiles can also be shredded and used for cleaning cloths.
Shebeens were also raided in the vicinity although Police came under pressure from a hostile crowd of onlookers.
The South African High Power Rocketry Association has clubs around the country for the high power rocket enthusiast.
Reduction in the risk of fires and the flooding which follows fires.
Lesetja Kganyago leads the National Treasury team with unflagging energy.
Minister Dlamini Zuma and Dr. Jorge Taiana will co-chair the Second Meeting of the SA  Argentine Binational Commission and Plenary Meeting.
Detectives of Mfuleni Police near Kuils River arrested a third suspect in connection with a double murder.
Allegedly Mr Ubisse was stopped in a roadblock in Bloemhof, with a stolen vehicle.
Some colonial Boers rebelled, however, in sympathy with the republics.
The Presidential programme for the Inanda Kwamashu Ntuzuma area, called INK, moves up a gear this year.
Named Joule, the ultra sleek zero-emission car is Africa's answer to climate change.
This will serve as a basic unifying force which transcends cultural, racial and other potentially divisive factors.
The constables called for back-up and the two suspects were then arrested.
Mr Kruger, my instructions are that you have a notoriously bad temper.
Despite unification of sport, the status quo persists in terms of representativity.
Mr Phajane allegedly took his ex-girlfriend by force to a friend's house and raped her.
The GKG Transfrontier Park will be a world-class ecotourism destination, with extensive private sector involvement, but managed to optimize benefits for biodiversity conservation and economic development of local communities.
Construction-related SMEs face various difficulties in gaining access to the market.
Our presentation will, however, be incomplete if we do not correct the sensationalised and maligned acts of repossession.
I think we should now call Mr Willemse, Mr Tienie Willemse.
The Director of Flatfoot Dance Company, based at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, Lliane Loots told BuaNews that dance and songs help African societies reinforce cultural and historical self-awareness.
Mr Vally, put your question again to Doctor Wouter Basson.
The Development and provisioning of tele-collaborative learning innovations and the management of knowledge.
Laurie is waiting here in the vicinity somewhere and he'll be coming in shortly after Roger.
The customer's card and seven hundred Rands were recovered and the suspect was swept away to his rightful place, the police cells.
Plettenberg Bay is gearing up for a bumper season with jam-packed calendar of events guaranteed to scintillate visitors from around the globe.
Terrorism with Chemical and Biological Weapons: Calibrating Risks and Responses edited by Brad Roberts.
Two South Africans, Monique and Callie Strydom are held captive on Jolo Island in the Philippines by Muslim rebels.
Chinese involvement in the South African light manufacturing sector is through the SOE Shanghai Industrial and its local subsidiary Shanghai Industrial Investment Corporation.
Reduction targets for prioritised waste streams and pollutants discussed by and communicated to relevant stakeholders.
Other trends include greater coverage and awareness of gender-based violence.
This article is reproduced courtesy of the publishers; Bell-Roberts Publishing.
This helps prevent automated programs from misusing our online system.
The Phasing will be refined and optimised in the Olifants-Sand ORWSDP Feasibility study which commences soon.
The case is being investigated by Detective Inspector Yugen Moodley of the SAPS Scottsburg Detective Services.
The creation of job opportunities as well as the skilling of the teaching assistants fulfils the goals of iKapa Elihlumayo and addresses the human and social capital strategies.
The thorough investigation done by Inspector Deon Viljoen saw a rapist being sentenced to fifteen-years imprisonment.
Information was followed upand theParkway Crime Prevention and Detective Branch succeededin arresting the three suspects in Dr Belcher Road in Heidedal.
The situation is exacerbated by the absence of legislation that empowers the Ministry DSR to act or not act either way.
Local pop-star Brenda Fassie is buried here, as are a number of veterans of the anti-apartheid struggle.
For me that covers the spectrum from Girl-child to Grandmother.
Vandalism - the wilful destruction or defacing of property - is a crime.
A diverse landscape which is intact in this geomorphic, hydrological, aquatic, terrestrial and ecological functioning.
Security measures at the Tulbagh Park and Sangcardia buildings were upgraded.
After the dagga was seized, Rapie Modibane paid an admission of guilt fine and was released.
The arena, QwaQwa, usually occurs together with Hoodia and is also eaten as a appetite suppressant.
That legacy includes the anti-personnel mines that litter the African landscape.
I am not condoning the silence of the Jewish community in the apartheid era, I am attempting to explain it and I am asking for your understanding.
Licences, no licences other than to the public broadcaster have been issued.
We are most delighted that the extensive exchanges between our departments have culminated in this important milestone.
Burned-down quarters of the foreign nationals at Mohlaletsi in Apel.
Post partum, once the calf commences suckling, this oedema usually disappears without any adverse side effects.
Former Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr Aziz Pahad farewell function held at Galagher Estate, Midrand.
Such disparities in lifestyles are unreservedly rejected by today's civilised society and democratic government.
The Security Council will also receive briefings from the Special Representatives of the Secretary-General on the UN Missions to Georgia and Kosovo.
Communicable diseases, Dr Frean said, were very prevalent on the continent.
Mariannhill was the first landfill site, arguably worldwide to be incorporated into an ecosystem restoration site and be a registered National Conservancy site.
Decreasing discrimination against people with disabilities based on archaic beliefs and customs.
Some content on this website is in Adobe Acrobat PDF file format.
Children suffering from infectious diseases restricted as regards attending school.
Served under Ma Albertina Sisulu, then provincial and national president and vice presidents Kgabisi Mosunkutu and Ram Saloojee.
But the investigating officer, Detective Inspector Murphy Papa, led a manhunt and tracked the suspects down to a flat in Upper Liesbeeck Road, Mowbray.
Never leave a fire unattended and make certain that fires are properly extinguished before leaving an area.
Many techniques and facilities are used for ex-situ conservation, including botanical and zoological gardens, nurseries, arboreta, aquaria, herbaria, gene banks, tissue and culture collections, and captive breeding units.
Operational management procedures will be based on scientific principles recognizing the inherent variability of resources and the interdependence of the components of marine ecosystems.
They aresuspected to be the main suppliers of the refurbished cellular phones in Mpumalanga.
As a result, all Wuppertal farmers are now growing rooibos organically.
Each selected trainee will undergo comprehensive training in Hygiene and Cleaning services and related life skills.
Registered tour-guide also for overnight or one day tours.
I will, in welcoming you, also ask Commissioner Yasmin Sooka to assist you in presenting your statement.
Cato Manor SAPS Communications Officer Insp. Valery Govender with the recovered items from Operation Dudula.
A Norinco pistol, belonging to the suspects, was found in a VW Kombi abandoned by the robbers at ga Maja village.
SAMDI will be co-operating with the equivalent institution in the DRC.
Its ethos is an all-pervasive optimism for a better life for all our people.
Some breeds, notably the Bos indicus breeds, seem to be more susceptible to acidosis than others.
Durban boasts plenty of designers that can tailor-make your fairytale dress for that special occasion.
The continued perpetuation of school inequality has the potential of generating widespread discontent among our education communities.
This subgroup includes wholesale trade in alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages.
Participants to the festival came from Hawston, Genadendal, Worcester, Robertson and Montagu.
But he warned that if current flooding patterns continued unabated, the situation would deteriorate considerably.
We cannot afford another Three-Mile Island or Chernobyl incident, nor can we become complacent and reactive.
Their assets, which include luxury vehicles, houses in Plattekloof were seized.
The work of musicians varies, depending on their field of specialization.
Happily, Hercules unites with Henriette, and after they conceive their first child, tragedy strikes.
In all official documentation, the Rouble is abbreviated as Rbl.
This site uses byte serving to ensure the speedier downloading of PDF documents.
The work being done on the development of photovoltaic cells, essentially a quantum improvement in the harnessing of solar power, is extraordinary, and bodes well for the renewable energy programme.
Mookgophong and BelaBela Municipalities have a serious shortfall of water and the only viable option is to augment potable water fish from the Magalies Water Board pipeline.
And then there is a sub-lease to Ellis Park Management Pty Ltd.
The chalets each have been given the names of warrior kings such as Shaka, Soshangane and Ngungunyane.
If the irregularities did take place, they will have compromised the integrity of the examinations in the classrooms concerned.
They held the staff members at gunpoint and stole an undisclosed amount of cash from the tills.
Most law schools didn't challenge the judicial tendencies to uncritically implement unjust laws for taking a blatantly pro-executive stance.
Our own humble initiative, the SA-Mali Project, complements the on-going preservation and scholarly work around the world to carry out a mammoth task involving several hundred thousand manuscripts.
Cato Manor Police Officers, Senior Supt Mnganga holds the recovered handbag and Capt Mbambo the cash recovered while being hugged by Ms Annette Roux.
After gathering information regarding the suspect, Supt Engelbrecht and Insp. Coetzee who headed a group of members, held a lengthy meeting to plot and plan their moves.
Presenting a monthly report to the NCACC on all permits approved, as well as country trends and regional profiles.
Pioneering black artist, George Pemba dies in the Eastern Cape.
Luckily I learnt to swim as a teenager, otherwise we would have drowned and been eaten by crocodiles, said Mr Mashiyi.
According to the Oxford Dictionary quiet is calm, unobtrusive not showy.
And secondly it is the cross-examination of Mr Daan Goosen.
Through their years together at Inanda they have forged friendships and loyalties to each other and the school.
Minor offences include littering and illegal dumping along coastal routes, unleashed dogs on beaches, and the use of sand-yachts on walking and recreation beaches.
Ribotech Pty Ltd, which operates as a subsidiary of Bioclones, boasts a state-of-the-art pilot production facility designed to comply with all the requirements of good manufacturing practice.
When the woman started screaming and resisting the attack, the suspect allegedly stabbed her in the neck.
The deceased was allegedly stabbed in the taxi and died at Thebe District Hospital in Harrismith.
Recently, members of the Potchefstroom Organised Crime Unit werehavingdisruptive actions between Potchefstroom and Khuma, when they surprised two groups of men at illegal smelting houses.
Khanya also supplied a laptop to Tauriq Jackson, who is recovering from his injuries at home.
As measured by the Gini Coefficient, South Africa has one of the most skewed distributions of wealth in the world.
This was precipitated by the occurrence of a few unfortunate incidents in which the residences of Ministers were attacked.
One of these areas is the Overstrand corridor stretching from Rooi Els in the West to Gansbaai in the East.
In this regard, the South African Government welcomed the talks last February between Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas in Sharm el-Sheik, Egypt .
Frost-free fridges do not require defrosting, but use more electricity.
An incident occurred to my recollection when the Daliwonga students are supposed to have kidnapped two of the boys in the premises.
The San and the Khoi people were subjected to such systematic and horrendous brutality that they were almost exterminated.
Since former Model-C schools are located in advantaged residential areas, it follows that the school grounds are inherently more valuable than those in townships like Khayelitsha and Mitchell's Plain.
For any further input or clarification please contact Clayton Wakeford.
Even for purposes of relaying messages you formed the opinion that she was not capable of dealing with the situation.
Papwa Sewgolum is set to be immortalised in a documentary being produced by a local film company and his son Rajen Sewsunker.
Finalised at financial year end due to time constraints and unavailability of staff during the public service strikes.
The Queenstown Station Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner Nikki Mlilwana,applauded Queenstown communitymembers, in particulara personfrom New-vale.
The apartheid Public Service created inequity, the democratic PS needs to unravel this inequity and reconstruct the political, economic and social landscape.
Women's or girls' suits, ensembles, jackets, blazers, dresses, skirts, divided skirts, trousers, bib and brace overalls, breeches and shorts other than swimwear, knitted or crocheted.
Maluleka Associates appointed to do Water Sector Plan for the LM.
He disagrees with you that stun grenades or rubber bullets were used at all at that game.
Alfa Franks, a community leader in the Zanzibari community in Chatsworth, leads a wedding march.
The suspects then demanded to know where the firearm safe was and pistol-whipped three of the victims.
The Iraqi government cannot succeed in governing, defending, and sustaining itself by relying on U.S. military and economic support alone.
Alert Flying Squad officers on patrol arrested one wanted suspect in Verulam and recovered an unlicensed firearm from him.
There were no injuries as staff members adhered to the evacuation procedure and exited the building timeously.
And then subsequently you denied having an altercation with the PSL.
Minister Fraser-Moleketi thanks the outgoing Board members for their contribution to fulfilling the mandate of SITA.
The GKG Transfrontier Park will be one of the largest conservation areas in Africa and certainly amongst the top ecotourism destinations available anywhere.
Senior Supt Nayager said a day later a security guard was shot several times in Kennedy Road and his firearm was stolen.
I also wish to thank the two-person investigation committee consisting of Mr Len Dekker as chairperson and Mr Efraim Oppelt for the manner in which they performed their duties.
One of the most concrete manifestations of this private-public partnership, which also impacts positively on Southern African cooperation, is the Maputo Development Corridor.
Local media reported that thousands more had left Mississippi, Alabama and southeast Texas.
Luxury three bedroom self-contained guesthouse consisting of one double and two twin en-suite bedrooms.
He traced the three suspects and recovered the firearm, upon which two of the suspects decided to turn state witness against Mohapi.
Police are following leads on the muthi collectors and more arrests are eminent very soon.
Sheriffs should be chased away with stones and any documents served can be ignored or thrown away.
Walls, floor and roof without hollow spaces capable of affording harbourages for rodents.
The provision of non-scheduled air transport services on scheduled routes.
Pollock's transition from backyard cricketer to mainstream player was fairly conventional.
The boy was swearing at the teacher, who apparently reacted in shock and slapped the boy.
Members from Grassy Park SAPS swooped on a residence in Cuckoo Crescent, Parkwood in an attempt to eradicate the scourge of dealing in illegal narcotics in their community.
The name is Antrobus and I am representing Ellis Park together with my colleague Jan Engelbrecht.
It appears as if the man somehow landed in the raging Klipriver upstream some two days ago.
The creation of an environment conducive to collaborative, pre-competitive Nanotechnology Research and Development activities in industry.
The Bitou region offers visitors truly spectacular and uniquely diverse nature experiences.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has described Israel's latest deadly incursion into the Gaza Strip as a massacre.
The Georgedale farming project, the Ogunjini and the Siqophumlando club projects are some of the Rural ABMD-funded ventures that have embarked on the course of growing vegetables for commercial purposes.
A Ford Telstar stolen in Kagisaning was also recovered anda suspect was arrested for possession of suspected stolen property.
For deterrence of people contemplating committing crimes, research has indicated that long sentences are not necessary.
Over-exploitation of living marine resources, fish, rock lobster, prawns and mussels, is inadequately controlled.
She is currently also an ANC NEC member and Chairperson of the NEC Legislature and Governance Sub-committee.
Our second premise is that corruption is fundamentally undemocratic; it undermines the legitimacy and credibility of democratically elected governments and of responsible and accountable civil servants.
Mama Sisulu, I just want to come back to the abduction of the young people from the Methodist manse.
There was considerable progress between the Cape Town and Kigali gatherings.
The South African Embassy in Athens, Greece, is accredited to Bosnia and Herzegovina on a non-residential basis.
Andrew Kelehe wins the Comrades Marathon from Pietermaritzburg to Durban.
Mr Oosthuizen said South Africans were looking forward to welcoming the reigning FIFA World Cup champions.
Our Mayoral Committee Member for Finance, Alderman Ian Neilson, will provide you with the full details of the budget.
This is called the epididymis, which collects and carries sperm.
Architects in the South African Police Service can be stationed at Logistics.
SAPS Diep River swooped on an identified drug outletat a Flat in Primrose Park, Exeter Road, Plumstead.
Minister Ramatlakane was commenting on learning about the arrest of a 'high flyer' criminal suspect in Delft this morning.
Miriam Makeba makes a comeback from exile with her Sangoma album.
To perpetuate their imperial domination over the peoples of Africa, the colonisers sought to enslave the African mind and to destroy the African soul.
Pipelines and pumps used for milk are designed in circuits so that, for cleaning purposes, detergents can be pumped around internally.
Implementing a service whereby occurrences of vectors are monitored, controlled and eradicated to reduce the transmission of vector borne diseases.
The Station Commissioner of Welkom, Director Sam Mocwaledi applauded members for a job well done.
There has been rather misplaced opinionated articles about the WCED's role in assisting the victims of the Dennegeur Primary School bus accident.
Thapelo Khuma and Lebogang Mokgothu, are currently in custody on seven charges for crimes committed in the Pudimoe area.
Many developed and developing countries are experiencing unprecedented inflationary pressures, indicative of challenging economic environments within which we operate.
Vermiculture or earthworm farming has been practised for centuries - a thriving local industry exists to breed earthworms for fishing.
The dti will nurture the fledgling relationship until it is secured and agreements are in place.
Additional catchment maps are also presented portraying the distribution, nature and extent of each contributing land-cover class to each generalised category.
This was demonstrated when we received the National VUNA accolade for being the best province supporting municipalities.
Saamstaan played a leading role to mobilise communities when we had protest marches and to mobilise people around issues such as these.
Armed action, ranging from sporadic commando raids into several neighbouring countries, to full-scale invasion as occurred in Angola.
The Flower Picking Industry in Relation to Mountain Catchment Management in the Fynbos.
Spectaculars along roads shall be spaced at the following minimum distance.
Management regime for illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and management of fishing capacity.
We went to Muzimuhle and when I got to my house, I met Virginia Erasmus Richardson.
Important and updated publications, bulletins, leaflets and posters should be placed on the website and should be downloadable.
We were singing freedom songs and Xoliswa Falati was leading us in those songs and we were dancing and ululating.
Holmes was denied access to Kassab camp in the northern part of the region.
In addition, security was upgraded and security services provided at the Diplomatic Guesthouse and Union Buildings.
Talks between a senior Palipehutu FNL delegation and Tanzanian officials took place in Tanzania under the auspices of President Benjamin Mkapa.
The three suspectsfrom Tsakane and Frankfort were arrested and detained in the police cells.
An ultrasound machine with pulse doppler for use with Cardiac and Vascular Surgery.
For their own safety, motorists, cyclists and pedestrians are requested to adhere strictly to the temporary signage and road markings.
Plenty of facilities available especially for children, such as paddling pools, slides and grassed areas.
EXCO supported the introduction of water restrictions to the south of the Mkomazi River and Magabeni Township.
It is a self-regulatory organisation which approves listing applications, licences stockbrokers, and operates the trading, clearing and settlement on the exchange.
I shall convene a Provincial Funding Conference in September aimed at sourcing funding from private donors and investors in the nodal projects of the ISRD and URP.
Dissatisfied that no progress was being made, Dorothy Hendricks complained to Asst Comm. Raymond Ntobela, who requested the Provincial Organized Crime Unit to take over the investigation.
I said I fired seven shots whilst people were throwing stones and for the entire duration of the seven shots people were throwing stones.
The burden of these statements is that we should not discuss racism because to discuss racism is both racist and foments racism.
The increasing decentralisation to departments and provincial administrations of day-to-day managerial responsibility and decision-making.
The scarcity of Darma Wallabies in Africa, made Ally a huge educational attraction.
Membership fees for sporting and recreational clubs, e.g. country clubs and golf clubs.
DNA is the abbreviation for deoxyribonucleic acid, a long chainlike molecule found in cells, storing all the information necessary for life.
The operation, which had the primary aim of arresting outstanding suspects, was coordinated by the Branch Commander of the Ikageng Detectives, Superintendent J C Scholtz.
Growth of neo-liberal and neo-conservative ideologies which confuse market economies with market societies and argue that the ideological debate about the nature of political economy has ended.
We would be accelerating the implementation of our anti-gang strategy, which includes integrated anti-drugs strategy linked to the high-flyer projects in the high risk-targeted communities.
It seems that the EU and the USA will continue to impose sanctions on the Zimbabweans, further aggravating its precarious economic situation.
Publications both internally and externally, publishing of documents in the Information Desk, for the public's accessibility and updating of the Departmental website.
Two vehicles, a Toyota Camry belonging to one of the suspects and a truck, were also seized.
He told IRNA here that all enrichment activities of Iran are viewed by cameras and supervised by nuclear inspectors.
Inter-city coaches and trains are reasonably priced and depart daily for various destinations.
David MacEnulty will open tournament as a representative of chess for change.
They were basically to extract names of colleagues for additional detentions, to extract confessions and information and to intimidate and to try to pressure people into becoming informers.
Parliamentarians are now in a fortunate position to ensure their executives act more decisively on matters.
This has only resulted in massive Israeli military and other repressive actions and has undermined the just Palestinian cause internationally.
Furthermore I am pleased to announce that we will now be extending the SSS programme to the Lavender Hill, Steenberg, Cafda and Retreat areas.
The suspect vehicle, a White Toyota Camry, was identified at the roadblock while the vehicle was driving towards the roadblock.
A Constable Govender from the radio control room confirmed that these radio conversations occurred.
The South African Government has consistently condemned attacks on civilians, whether they were Palestinian or Israeli.
Shipping is highly cyclical and ship owners and operators must be able to adapt their fleets to meet continuously changing circumstances.
It was established that the head of cattle was slaughtered on a farm not far from Rulaganyang, in the Wolmaransstad area.
Emyr Jones Parry, the British ambassador, said that the West supported Gedi's government, but expected political progress before sending troops.
The Municipality proposes temporary traffic detours along Centenary Road, Carlisle and Cross Streets.
The Sasavona Guesthouse in Lulekani, a few kilometres from the Kruger National Park's Phalaborwa Gate, was opened to tourists and visitors this week.
It is business as usual, departmental spokesperson Sizwe Kupelo, told BuaNews on Friday.
Can she say POP deployed razor wire along this fence to circumvent the crowd coming in?
The Social Transformation Programme is rooted in the Ikapa GDS and aligned with social capital notion of community power.
Frank Wygold, Physicist and engineer, who has dedicated his energy in environmental and life-skills education, such as the centre for entrepreneurial skills at the Brooklyn Chest Hospital.
Immunisation against tetanus and typhoid is also recommended.
This ideal is hardly a pie-in-the-sky dream if you see what is happening at Cecilia Makiwane Hospital in the Eastern Cape.
The Centre utilises Compaq workstations and high capacity database and communications servers that also feature a high level of redundancy.
Accompanied passenger baggage would be dealt with in essentially the same way.
Avoid paddling in areas known to be frequented by white sharks, such as near seal colonies and in areas where they congregate inshore in the summer months.
He was rushed to the vet and received several stitches.
The denials by those senior officers are neutralised by these documents.
The suspect was connected to several housebreaking incidents and was found in possession of a stolen vehicle.
Results of water analyses confirmed that that there were no indications that costly bio-augmentation was necessary.
The news of the untimely passing of Lesley Slow Poison Manyathela, a striker with Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana was received with great shock and sadness.
Grindrod said he was very pleased that Cape Town hotels and products scored incredibly well.
Use of off-road vehicles and jet skis is not sufficiently regulated.
Stags and stags of boxes containing stolen sweets and tea seized during the arrest of two suspects outside Potchefstroom.
The police recovered a firearmand sent it for ballistic testing.
Plotting of development control applications and enquiries on a cadastral plan to be undertaken by Development Management Dept by mid-March.
Court managers and registrars are appointed from serving personnel where the required competencies and expertise exist, or can be potentially developed.
The police in Kuruman clamped down on copper wire theft yesterday when they arrested four suspects for possession of copper wire.
The City has therefore adopted a definitive strategy with regard to the development of human settlements to improve the quality of life for everyone, says Cllr Erleigh.
The photo shows the winning duo Michael Mbanjwa and Martin Dreyer being congratulated by Mr. Rajbansi at the finish line of the race in the Blue Lagoon in Durban.
From time to time the underlying structural assumptions are updated, but inevitably only in retrospect, giving rise to potential revisions.
No fires are allowed anywhere along the peninsula mountain chain except in specifically demarcated areas.
I shall start by a short excerpt from the inquest into the death of Steve Biko.
Your Excellency you will have to forgive me for waxing lyrical about this province, it is my home ground!
LOC Chief Marketing Officer Derek Carstens says the adverts are meant to encourage South Africans to take ownership of the tournament.
First it provided justification for ever more punitive, secretive and restrictive security measures and secondly it portrayed opposition to the government as disloyal and even traitorous.
Well, he calls himself Jimmy Mouton, but other people call him Jimmy Mittens.
The Coat of Arms is a series of elements organised in distinct symmetric egg-like or oval shapes placed on top of one another.
Totals include other and unspecified population groups and gender.
I have no knowledge of the interrogation and death of Themba Johannes Mabotha.
A friend and fellow detainee, Ismail Meer, described Gumede as a 'gentle patriot, deeply respected by his followers and opponents alike'.
Eventually she gave up the limelight to become the wife of theatrical agent Cecil Tennant to take on the new role of wife and mother.
The diplomatic life is one characterised by this making of new friends and the inevitable sad farewells.
'Reversed' integration should also be encouraged: that is, non-disabled people in search of pre-employment training should be accommodated within vocational rehabilitation centres.
The University of the Witwatersrand awards Athol Fugard an honorary doctorate in literature.
These words of the Chilean poet Pablo Neruda speak of a century and a millennium that are fast receding into the past.
The detective on standby, D Insp. Makgae, as well as the fingerprint experts from LCRC were called in and a case of murder was registered.
A sub-tropical coastal plain incorporating the Eastern Transvaal Lowveld, Mozambique and northern KwaZulu Natal, in which the marine influence is strong, and aquatic ecosystems have variable salinity.
Group-based and self-paced materials aimed at beginner users, consisting of group- and self-paced modules aimed at giving users basic computer and information literacy skills.
Are you able to recall where about the Njala was when you saw it?
From accountants and hairdressers to tour guides and trackers, the tourism industry draws upon a multiplicity of skills.
According to Falati, that there was a white male by the name of Paul Verryn who was abusing the youths.
The Saldanha Bay Local Municipality covers the West Coast Peninsula, Langebaan and Hopefield.
New deaths have been reported at Narbethong where eight people died and Yarra Glen which has one fatality.
Analytical methods and instruments used in the Cedara Feed Laboratory.
When police started cracking down on illegal outlets, we expected a cacophony of protests and threats from the owners of shebeens and taverns.
Yesterday the Minister and many other speakers warned South Africans of the dire consequences of violating UN sanctions against UNITA.
With regard to rivers, aquatic ecosystems and those ecosystems dependent on them.
To Adv. Rodney De Kock and the prosecutors who keep our courts operational and working.
Women who resist harassment or complain, may be victimised, for example, overlooked for promotion.
The ICRC is particularly concerned about abuses committed by armed persons against the civilian population, usually women and children, said Patrick Walder, head of the ICRC sub-delegation in Bukavu.
Mobilising and organising community based campaigns and activities and the resources required to sustain them.
Callipers are available for people who have polio, neurological disorders, strokes and low muscle tone.
The Provincial Government has undertaken to handle allegations of fronting very seriously.
The Khanya Project of the Western Cape Education Department installed the laboratory at Bernadino Heights Secondary School in Kraaifontein.
The Analytical laboratory samples and analyses waste water from a range of sources which includes wastewater treatment plants, trade wastes from industrial processes, landfill lactates and sledges.
The other one is sealed in a transparent tamper-proof bag which is checked at the local capturing office.
End-of-pipe Treatment: Treating pollutants at the end of a process, for example, by filters, catalysts and scrubbers, instead of preventing the creation and occurrence of these pollutants.
Growing up I always wanted to be an Olympian, Phelps said.
The Thai Baht and the US dollar are widely used.
Nibs goes solo on the gorgeous Flowers in the Rain.
It is like stepping through a magic mirror into a world of green lushness and tranquillity.
Western Cape Minister for Community Safety Leonard Ramatlakane and Provincial Police Commissioner Mzwandile Petros met with members of the Foreign Diplomatic Missions stationed in Cape Town.
An introductory and well-illustrated title to training in weights for eager novice body builders, giving necessary and useful guidelines to training.
I wish to say a heartfelt thank you in particular to the two communication officials, Festy Nyamate and Palesa Mpuru, for their exuberance and enthusiasm.
Sydenham SAPS Station Commissioner Senior Supt Glen Nayager commended the officers involved and assured the community that the police will continue with drug operations that will bring perpetrators to book.
A special Ivory Park task team on house robberies led by captain Evert Grobler intensified investigations immediately after the incident.
The Project enjoys the blessing of the Norwegian Nobel Institute.
Another one given by his handlers was to establish business contacts in Maputo for purchasing prawns and ivory.
South African writer, JM Coetzee, wins the Nobel Prize for Literature.
In this context, it was inevitable that we should focus on the issue of diamonds.
This automatically alerts contractors who are registered with CIDB by email and sms.
Why do we have special campaigns to immunize against polio?
Men's or boys' underpants, briefs, nightshirts, pyjamas, bathrobes, dressing gowns and similar articles, knitted or crocheted.
Xhariep DM is in the process of appointing the WSDP consultants who will also prepare the water sector plan for the local municipalities including Mohokare LM.
Stewardship for which the City has earned an enviable reputation.
The gorillas will return to their native country, Cameroon, following an official request by the Government of Cameroon, supported by the IFAW.
These exceptionally high smoking habits are providing new clues to the current widespread disease pandemics such as chronic bronchitis, emphysema and TB.
A gripping exhibition of historical photographs of the native people of America, entitled Sacred Legacy by legendary photographer and ethnographer Edward .
Light bulbs are to be replaced with energy saving light bulbs.
The contempt charges relate to criminal sanctions in terms of our Act.
Furthermore, the DSR will be signatory to international conventions appertaining to sport and recreation.
Holst thanked Mlaba for the support the City has shown over the years.
In spite of it being one of Durban's poorest schools, Dawnridge Primary has a lively atmosphere and boasts one of the highest enrolment figures.
Black or brown skinned people have a negligible incidence of skin cancer because of the melanin pigment in their skin, but they are still prone to sun-related damage.
The United Nations Secretary-General should designate a Special Envoy as his representative.
Hands-on capacity support were provided to project consolidate municipalities through the deployment Siyenza Manje Service delivery facilitators.
Clearly, together with neo-colonialism, cold-war rivalries, civil wars and mismanagement of economies, the marginalisation of women contributed to the further underdevelopment of Africa.
Attention to detail, generous breakfasts and warm hospitality are keynotes to a memorable stay.
Continuously address the target of employing women in management positions.
As far as I am aware you are now released and you are excused.
The focus we have is about our ecological footprint in the broader context of Climate Change and how we adapt and mitigate.
No shots were fired during the incident but one of the men wasreportedly injured after one of the suspects attacked him.
The powder was sent to Forensics to be analysed and to determine the value thereof.
Washington is rolling into high gear with less than a week left before Barack Obama is sworn in as the United States' first-ever African-American President.
Woodstock Police members, who came under fire as they chased the hijackers,arrested the wounded suspect on the corner of Lansdowne and Duinefontein Roads near Gugulethu.
Formal education through universities, technikons and learned institutions such as the IWM and CSIR.
As we travel along Malendela Road point out the hostels and adjoining shack settlement.
The Station Commissioner of Queenstown, Assistant Commissioner Nikki Mlilwana, applauded theswift response and the professionalism showed by the detectives.
Members of the Grassy Park Police,headed by Captain Ashley Petersen, achieved a major breakthrough when they arrested seven suspects in connection with an armed robbery in Wynberg.
Are those all the testings that you have found in this particular printout?
The example companies, organizations, products, people and events depicted herein are fictitious.
Covert operations would be cross-border operations and clandestine operations where people were tracked in various areas.
The fee for basic services can be viewed on the Swellendam web site.
Water purity cannot be relied on and hookworm is endemic on the coast and in the countryside.
Today, we learnt of another expression which characterises our relations with Lesotho - that 'Lesotho is not only land-locked but is also South Africa-locked'.
To meet the State's undertakings regarding international non-proliferation treaties, conventions and regimes to which South Africa is party.
Feed- and water trough space requirements for different classes of livestock.
Cape metro and surrounding irrigated agricultural regions are under constant threat of water shortages.
At one stage Shabalala became temporarily estranged from the IFP, which expelled him after he led a march in Durban, which ended in a shoot-out with police.
It carries provisional figures of production and export sales of minerals.
The fact that diabetes appears on the World Calendar of International Days is a clear indication that it has become a condition threatening to reach epidemic proportions.
Hand-woven tapestries of the type Gobelins, Flanders, Aubusson, Beauvais and the like, and needle-worked tapestries for example, petit point, cross stitch, whether or not made up.
Mr Lefevre also told reporters in the mixed zone that it was an amazing feeling to win a silver medal.
Accordingly, the weakest who were denied access to power became the landless, the unemployed, the uneducated, the surplus people deported to the so-called homelands, the victims of abject poverty.
The police found and seized commercial explosives inside the plastic bags carried by the suspects.
The stairways you are talking about is the steel made stairways.
The slide demonstrates that the individual units of the evolved Yin-Yang are united by the symbolic reference to the globe.
Three cellular phones and an Opel Astrawhich were used to commit these crimes, were also confiscated.
A car bomb exploded in front of the Garfunkel Restaurant in Durban.
About half-a-million learners are already reaping the benefits of the project.
The lawlessness by taxi operators has been strongly condemned by the Deputy Provincial Commissioner Benny Ntlemeza who reiterated that suchbehaviour by taxi operators would notbe tolerated .
Mrs Burton is going to administer the oath and then Glenda Wildschut will lead your evidence.
It just shows the depravity of our society in those bygone days.
Some of the squatters are legitimate District Six claimants; the status of the others is being investigated.
The suspect allegedly demanded money from an armed robber after a post office at Marishane village had been robbed.
Fanie was an informant handler who would report to Mr Watermeyer with regard to the information gathered in whatever sense.
No, Aletta Rautenbach was there and my wife, Isabel Erasmus was also there.
The Berea SAPS Spokesperson, Captain Caroline Naidoo, said the Metro Police officers busted a premises in the Botanic area that was used as a brothel.
They fear that they will be the worst and perhaps the express victims of the impending catastrophe.
He did not recline on his throne with a self-satisfied smile.
One must undergo a public order police entry, crime combating and specialized modular courses.
Unaccredited media will not have access to the official engagements on the programme.
He and Bredawere rushed to the Ladysmith Hospital for treatment.
Some of the members responsible for arresting the two stock thieves and seizing the meat as well as an axe used for the slaughtering.
Thanks to a specialised hydrostatic winch and its torpedo-shaped pipe cracker attachment, far fewer trenches need to be dug in the city centre, which means less disruption to traffic.
Markets around the world have been experiencing turmoil exacerbating fears of a global recession.
Some headway has been made in terms of projecting a new ethos of accountability and social responsibility in health care.
The Hospital wishes to thank all our donors for their generous support.
Kimberley CCTV cameras did a sterling job in assisting in the arrest of four suspects after robbing a person at the ATM machine in the city.
Principals may contact EMDC assessment co-ordinators for information and guidance.
The police also recovered the stolen Toyota Hilux, deserted in the Samsamshoek informal settlement in Nuwerus as well as the firearm and a portion of the stolen cash.
Information on important aspects can be readily extracted and used logically to lead to appropriate actions.
Africa cries out for a new birth, Carthage awaits the restoration of its glory.
When they learnt of the sponsorship problems they did not hesitate to approach me with a plan.
Swanieville is conspicuously poverty-stricken, and the neighbourhood is riddled with high level of unemployment.
DSW are now progressing with the implementation of their ERs schemes, with new landfill gas management works at the landfill sites.
In returning to these Asian shores, we reaffirm the golden thread that has, since Bandung, bound us together through the Non-Aligned Movement.
Theycordoned off the house and intensified the search on the premises.
The 'a-factors'  attempts by Government to regulate enrolments have been ad hoc and arbitrary.
Both sides expressed their readiness to cooperate on supplying the bogies and couplers needed by the Railways of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
I can spend a considerable time recounting all the amazing stories of things gone wrong.
Look at the bottle I took from the house, Ernest Seitshoko is saying.
The continued uneasy status of the SABC contributes significantly to the confusion about these divisions.
Researchers have tagged some of them and even obtained tissue samples for genetic profiling.
Open adoptions are adoptions where the identities of the various parties are known to each other.
A further warning is issued regarding cigarette butts, which are primarily known to spark fires.
Obey the lifeguards and only swim in the demarcated areas.
Leeds involvement include the Leeds soccer coaching clinics to be held all over the city.
User rights shall be non-transferable and shall revert to the State.
This has massive implications in terms of infrastructural investment and job opportunities.
Arguments are advanced honestly that such a discussion, about racism, can only lead to the division of our country into mutually antagonistic racial camps.
I wish to re-iterate that full-service schools will be developed as model inclusive mainstream schools.
Yes, it was a pyrolysis report with MX and I believe there was cannabis in it and diphenal amine.
Soccer giants Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates are set to clash at Coca Cola Park and tens of thousands of fans are expected to descend on the venue.
UV has a dark nightmare-like quality that subtly and slowly lures the reader into its mystery.
The implications are just as dire for the occupants of the car.
So we're talking about potentially two large amounts of money.
Suddenly he spotted the bakkie in the drive-way of a house and parked nearby.
The two suspects are expected to appearin theIngwavuma Magistrates' Court.
The report also highlights that none of the pipelines have to be completely replaced.
There is no single defined mechanism to assess the performance of honorary consuls.
One armed suspect allegedly pointed a policeman with a firearm and he was shot once in the chest by the policeman.
Congratulations to all the police officials involved in finalizing the case.
It's an area where the mysterious Msileni joint disease occurs.
GIS demonstrations will include a 'fly through' of the earth globe, zooming through the different layers of information, as well as a CCTV monitoring vehicle.
These folds assist in the removal of fluid from the ingest on their way to the abomasums.
Many thanks to Minister Essop Pahad for his commitment to the Timbuktu project and for having kept all the diverse elements of the project closely co-ordinated.
The investigation is still continuing and more arrests are imminent.
Appointment of service provider to be finalized in order to fast-track the review process.
The policechasedthe suspects and managed to arrest two of them.
Sectional title properties pay only for the bins they use.
The Drug Sections of the FSL are currently inundated with requests to prioritize cases to meet final court remand dates.
A relieved Sergeant Molepo wrapped the baby warmly in his jacket to protect her from any possible further harm.
Human population growth has caused extensive disruption of ecosystem processes, loss of biodiversity, and depletion of coastal and marine harvestable resources.
Preliminary investigation aided the police to track down the suspect at an address in Khayamnandi.
Croatia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia continue to be part of the Stabilisation and Association Process.
Throngs of people assembled to observe the day, singing jubilantly.
This means that the communities most at risk in rural areas are often reachable only sporadically, said the head of the ICRC's Darfur operation, Denise Duran, quoted in the statement.
We cannot eradicate racism without dealing with sexism at the same time.
The democratic regime inherited an economy distorted by decades of apartheid rule.
A cocktail reception and musical presentation will be hosted by Portugal that evening.
That is actually impossible the way the scaffolding was constructed.
Because you and Margo suppressed it, I want to put it to you.
And Oupa Sehere was the one who shot them up.
Members of Madibogo police station, with some of the stolen household articles seized.
But against hosts France, and in unseasonably cold weather, South Africa's debut at the finals proved a major disappointment.
The best way to teach vocational education is widely debated.
Meet with housing developers in the province to assess status quo and co-planning by the end of June.
Livestock roaming around the freeway would be confiscated and their owners will be fined.
It seems clear to us that the pressures emanating from the global economy have intensified and shifted in important ways.
Other lifting, handling, loading or unloading machinery  for example, lifts, escalators, conveyors, teleferics.
Tuberculosis - A bacterial disease that is highly infectious but which is also curable.
Sipo's name was there also, I think Lerothodi Ikaneng's name was listed as well.
His web of crimes were mainly financial having robbed the state of millions of Rands.
Volunteers are also recruited to complement the services given by care workers.
Had you rehearsed on how to get out of the crates.
The stereotype about the Central and South American people according to this survey was that they are dark-skinned, quick-tempered, emotional, unimaginative, unintelligent, dishonest and inefficient.
Homogenising will make them all the same size as well as making the milk more palatable and digestible.
Four more single-engined helicopters have been added to the SAPS.
And who took you to Mkuze?
A grandmother from Alabama outside Klerksdorp, made a horrible discovery after noticing that her fifteen-month-old grandson was experiencing difficulty in walking and urinating.
A co-detainee informed the family that he had been informed by his interrogators and torturers that Stanza Bopape had been shot whilst attempting to escape.
International Relations and Cooperation Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane will host Opening of Parliament Banquet in honour of the Diplomatic Corps.
Individuals who have successfully completed an undergraduate or postgraduate qualification.
Responsible use of statistics inevitably occurs in tandem with misuse and distortion.
Boom-gates at drop-off zones are to be activated by a panic button and security guards who are not armed will also be issued with panic buttons.
Cervical cancer is one of the most preventable forms of cancer.
Standardized assessment exercises, assessed against given rubrics, have to be the order of the day.
Effectively the managed disbursements of these financial resources is required.
The poorest schools are in quintile one and the least poor in quintile five.
The applicants must not be in possession of any other bursary or scholarship.
In North Kivu the presence of former brigades of Congolese army supporting renegade General Nkunda and their resistance to the deployment of integrated brigades remains a serious concern.
Advertisers have complained of what they term excessive rates charged by the broadcasters.
While there is greater demand for liberalisation of economies there is increased protectionism.
If anyone expected Fatima Meer to quietly retire from activism once democracy was ushered into South Africa, they were sorely disappointed.
To inform and educate the public about the upgraded banknotes, the SARB has embarked on an extensive communication campaign.
The suspects robbed two men of their cell phones at Casamia Flats inBloemfontein.
The detectivesof Eshowe SAPS are confident that they will be able to link these four suspects to housebreakings as well as other cases in the Eshowe area.
Group and Entrepreneurial Schemes, enterprise development and synergistic partnership formation to leverage offerings.
Ensure the rendering of a community development-orientated environmental health service.
The information department and HRV Committee will be asked to expedite the finding process by the RRC.
Joining me as well for this broadcast is Miranda Strydom, my colleague at the SABC, our political correspondent.
Formulated in that fashion I agree with you, Mr Co-Chairman.
Be alert - let's fight fires by co-operating and being sensible.
Two detectives from Delareyville, Inspectors Deon Viljoen and Roelf Herbst, have arrested eight suspects wanted in five different cases since last week.
This will stimulate tourism throughput for the whole of the Overberg region.
The deal was reached on the sidelines of the Franco-Africa Summit in Cannes.
Over the last few days the violence has intensified enormously, and at a time when the AMISOM forces who are mainly Ugandan have been deployed to Mogadishu.
Bird watching and recreational fishing are major tourist attractions to the estuary.
A dripping tap or the dull thump thump of amplified music can cause extreme stress.
The Government has decided not to embark upon a programme of nationalisation to reverse ownership patterns in the mining sector.
It is a fight that comprises of new kind of enemies.
Both of them were stabilized and rushed to St Dominic's Hospital in Southernwood.
A policewoman operates the morph touch machine to check for wanted suspects.
They have established an educational arm to proactively reduce the prevalence of drowning.
The end of the period was marked by a blurring of the distinction between armed incidents and unrest.
They were allegedly operating from a bottle store situated at a corner of Ntemi Piliso and Bree street.
The two regional fishing nodes are the towns of Port Nolloth and Hondeklipbaai.
Also included are the operation of towing or pushing boats, excursion, cruise or sightseeing boats, ferries, water taxis, etc.
I will then invite a representative of OASSSA, Miss Ann Harper to come forward please.
Influence of red nut grass, Cyprus rotundas, on growth and development of some crop plants.
What separates us is the garage and the tarred road.
The Three Young Tenors of Gugulethu and a brass band of the Frank Pietersen Music Centre provide entertainment.
The negotiations were facilitated by the Secretary-General's Special Envoy Peter Walsum.
A conceptual framework for assessing allelochemicals in the soil environment.
The comparative figures were reclassified as a result of prior period errors and presenting the statement of financial performance by nature.
Engaged in a door-to-door campaign and Imbizos for information sharing.
We therefore welcome you, Mr Secretary-General, as a liberator into the midst of an army of liberators, where you rightly belong.
I saw the vehicles and I saw four policemen on horseback.
Project-manage the labour-intensive projects in line with the EPWP framework.
Nanotechnology-based water purification systems could help reduce exposure to water-borne diseases such as cholera.
The Motsanyane Commission was also formed to address the atrocities that happened in exile.
It is one of the three greatest Jewish religious festivals.
The cyclists spent the previous night in Yzerfontein, and stopped for lunch and photographs at Kreeft Bay in Melkbosstrand.
We will also during the year have a trade exposition in China, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Beijing.
Join cultural festivals of different communities during the festive season.
Yes, there was a post-mortem, because they were found with lots of wounds and they had been stabbed all over their bodies.
They undertook to raise the issue with the President and the Minister of Justice which they have duly done.
The following programme is planned to coincide with the World Conference Against Rasicm.
Three-and-a-half years ago Captain Thabo Mofamere started to do research on chaplains in the SAPS.
The city has spent many months preparing for the inevitably long queues and traffic congestion.
Beira, in Mozambique, is the most cost-effective port for all citrus and subtropical fruit produced in the Highveld of Zimbabwe.
The artwork, Linoprint, used on the main page was created by Mr Lucas Lesedi Bambo.
Of this project is available at the Blocuso office and the Kai!
Our two countries have similar problems of water scarcity occasioned by similar climates.
Special awards for Birding and Environmental Law both went to Sans Souci Girls High.
It is time we did get jolted out of complacency.
They have also confiscated their Opel Corsa van used to convey the copper.
Item number three is the launch of the FTA, and finally the readmission of Seychelles.
Among the scenarios which were simulated were an airplane hijacking and a hostage situation.
They will be replaced by joint patrols of Ivorian army and former rebels.
I can't remember exactly, it was sometime in the nineties.
Both suspects are expected to appear in the Kwamsane Magistrates' Court.
What we were doing, we were marching, presenting memorandums, then they came in and shot teargas, arresting us.
Ms Archary welcomed the appointment and said it was daunting challenge, but one that she relished.
Provinces without medical faculties should benefit from interprovincial catchment areas.
This will be preceded by a preparatory meeting of technical experts convened by the UN Economic Commission for Africa.
A State of the Environment Report  SOER communicates information is a description of the condition of the between the holders of knowledge.
Informal settlement - Houses and shacks built on undeveloped land.
Supply and delivery of fertilizer at the Outeniqua Experimental Farm.
Farming activities  bulldozing, vineyards and orchards within the floodplain have modified the river channel and bed, reduced water quality and increased sedimentation.
The process to establish a Bi-National Commission was started with a view to accelerate different areas of practical co-operation, and to support post-conflict reconstruction in the Sudan.
The crowd began pushing against each other and police allegedly fired teargas into the crowd, setting off a panic that led to the stampede.
The programme targets women-headed households that are considered by the community structures and the ward councillors to be the most destitute.
Serbia has declared its willingness to proceed with negotiations process and to give Kosovo substantial autonomy with Serbia.
Hall of Merebank join forces to empower the youth by giving the gift of a brighter future - a bursary to assist financially needy and academically deserving students.
The United Nations Security Council has meanwhile agreed to extend the probe into the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister, Rafik Hariri, to include the assassination of Mr Gemayel.
All PCs are linked to a centrally managed server providing all the services.
They were sjamboked and one could tell that they were electrocuted in some way and it was usual that they were tortured and electrocuted as well.
Apart from the modal transfer facilities, substantial taxi rank roofing will also be included in the project.
In the past accessing government information and services was difficult.
The next layer of the administration was a platoon of guards led by a Platoon Commander and Platoon Commissar.
Three suspects detained by police fully admitted that the attack was masterminded.
Both suspects are in custody, and is expected to appear in the Vryburg Magistrates' Court soon.
It is clear that he is expecting discussions on many of the issues mentioned and subsequently, outcomes and decisions.
Cross-transfer from Kamieskroon SAPS, Namaqualand to any station in the North West, Gauteng or Free State.
Provision of anti-retroviral drugs to survivors of sexual assault is now national policy and sites are being expanded.
One of the strongest outcomes of the Convention is its promotion of culture as central to sustainable development.
I will start my talk reflecting on two momentous occasions that we as a country witnessed last year that are significant in terms of foreign policy direction.
One of the accused's friend was shot and killed by a friend of Thabisile Khuzwayo.
When he is not touring, Joseph Shabalala lives in Kloof with his wife and six children.
Mr Blatter is currently touring the country checking on the progress being made to host the event.
Capturing, typing, editing and distribution of minutes of the meetings attended.
Development of the Maritime Park, a landscaped car park and open space, incorporating marine artifacts, adjacent to the maritime Museum.
It was a guerilla warfare, a mobile warfare.
We have used and are using the delivery of basic services and access to resources to build durable unity.
The event will be held at the Caltonville Civic Centre on Thursday.
The media are invited to share in this historic event.
We also have to deal with the consequences of insufficient FDI.
They also serve as guarantees against historical revisionism, including state terrorism, crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocides.
Abbas said on Tuesday: What happened today is a massacre, a slaughter against the Palestinian people.
Extension of closing date: New forum: Profeus Secondary School: Atlantis.
It was available to be used by the members of the JOC.
The Peacebuilding Commission is yet to be operationalised but it will play a pivotal role in the transition from conflict to post conflict reconstruction that is sustainable.
In your professional opinion is the outer fence of Ellis Park substantial enough for soccer?
Mr Mbatha, would you explain to us what you mean by dismantled itself?
The SAPS in Galeshewe have committed themselves to continue with actions concentrating on crimes against women and children and will intensify their efforts during the festive season.
After a marathon-investigation, all five suspects were located and arrested.
We can agree that he saw the beginning of the stampede.
We sincerely hope that your efforts will succeed in healing this wounded and ailing community of ours.
The settlement is undergoing upgrading and the shacks are being replaced by state subsidized housing.
Biological control of weeds and plant diseases: Advances in applied allelopathy.
Commitment of all the stakeholders to the NWMS education, awareness and communication campaigns.
Yeats said, that the best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity.
The firearm was sent for ballisic tests to determine whether it wasused in the commission of a crime.
In locally empowering businesses, the municipality has sourced plant and materials, security guards and other project requirements from neighbourhood suppliers.
His son Aboobaker Moosa who will eventually take over the cinema empire is assisting him to run their multi-million rand business and also studying towards his B Com degree.
Seconds after the explosion, smoke engulfed the ground floor where the circuit board is located; resulting in a commotion as panicking employees ran for cover.
Sergeant C J Pretorius, currently working at Crime Prevention, Joubertina SAPS, needs a cross-transfer to Bloemfontein or surrounding areas.
I am deeply sorry for the hurt I have consciously and unconsciously caused others in our land because of racial, cultural, or religious bigotry in me.
However the implementation of the Ouagadougou Agreement has fallen behind schedule primarily because of capacity and resource constraints as well as positions regarding the integration of armed forces.
The State should take a constructive interventionist role in altering the patterns of ownership in the industry and promoting black ownership at all levels.
His Worship the Mayor, Councillor Obed Mlaba will be hosting the Leeds City Council delegation  Durban's twin city  that will be coming to Durban.
That is on the lower level of all four grandstands.
Unsustainable use of marine and coastal resources is of concern.
I am delighted to have been asked to address you at this Graduation Ceremony of the Foreign Service Institute.
Attached to each commitment we make is a detailed project plan, with targets and critical milestones.
And as you are aware, Hizbollah has announced that they have many more secret weapons in their arsenal.
EMDC Teaching Assistants Programme support teams as well as an external service provider conducted the monitoring and evaluation.
I now understand that you were not with Altech at the time of the Helderberg disaster, which is the subject of our enquiry.
The Executive Council, while calling for unequivocal condemnation of international arrest warrants issued illegally by some non-African States, recommended it for adoption by the AU Assembly.
All requests for indigent burials must be referred and considered by the appointed municipality officer at social services department of the Midvaal, local municipality.
If you don't see eye to eye then you're enemies, but these are beliefs that should be eradicated from our community.
Congratulations to the Rustenburg Dog Unit for giving drug dealing in the area, a major blow.
The Ombudsman for Banking Services  OBS  resolves individual complaints about banking services and products.
This makes it imperative that we do everything in our power to discourage the unproductive export of scarce capital to the developed world by our own nationals.
They have the right to the same chance as everybody else.
The great masses who engaged in a superhuman effort to rid themselves of tyrannical rule, their heroes and heroines who gave up everything for freedom remain unsung.
Hanif is going to be the one who leads you.
They are typically geared to employ maximum force against an external military aggressor.
There will be a float, carnival, performances, entertainment, song and dance, craft markets, a Bhangra Bash and fireworks display in the evening.
A preliminary team of the SADC observer mission was in Zimbabwe in mid-February.
For details on our research and development contact Eddie van Wyk.
This operation produces mining timber and eucalyptus oil for export.
From our point of view I would definitely say inaccurate.
The mineral industry should make its rightful contribution to tax revenues, both through taxes and royalties.
NRAs is a system dealing with stocks and changes to natural assets.
An independent, merit-based, activist body committed to assisting the nation to find science-based solutions for its problems and to create science-based opportunities for growth and prosperity.
The business of CNS has become the business of CKB.
All our transmission lines are designed such that the emissions are well below accepted levels and that these reduce exponentially with distance from under the conductors.
Contact her for change of address or updating your contact details and re-registration enquiries.
But, in mitigation, I would argue that the provision of housing in this province and this country is an enormously complex subject.
The NHBRC Warranty Scheme is aimed at improving the quality of our houses against structural defects.
Maybe so that you can also speak on the video footage, we would like sections of that video footage to be screened.
Bone Vega said: Guys, we should form a club so that we are able keep ourselves busy and not loiter around the streets.
On behalf of the Minister and Deputy Minister Aziz Pahad, I wish you a wonderful day and I hope that you all enjoy the music and the refreshments.
Certain doctors in some of the provincial hospitals embarked on an unprotected strike two weeks ago demanding to be paid their Occupational Specific Dispensation  OSD .
Saudi Arabia has pledged to explore the possibility of starting diplomatic relations with the Shia-led government in Iraq, a move long sought by the US.
This year sees the last cohort of matriculants writing the current Senior Certificate examinations.
It has to be a battle for ending the marginalization of lots of Africans in the Diaspora.
Contravention should remain a criminal offence, although these provisions should also be capable of civil enforcement.
Clinical examinations for all health sciences students should include credit for compassion and caring displayed.
One such item is the door of the cell in which the rebel, Jopie Fourie, was held prisoner in the Central Prison in Pretoria.
The public service obligations will remain as currently determined by the IBA and subject to adjustments prescribed by the Authority.
Never allow a bystander to call the toll-free stop card line on your behalf- they could be tricking you into thinking your card has been stopped.
Going on a city walk with Doung Anwar Jehangeer - it opened my eyes to a city I thought I knew, but clearly didn't.
This programme seeks to sustainably unlock the agricultural potential of the province and to create food security for all the inhabitants of the province.
It could be an invention that leads to further inventions.
The CSSA Computer Olympiad is one of the oldest and largest competitions of its kind in the world.
Priority needs in Uganda included shelter, food, and clean water, while concern about outbreaks of waterborne disease was growing as latrines mingled with flood waters.
We cannot allow a group of them to run car hijacking syndicates from the back of their houses- as if we living in a country with no constitution or a law.
This document sets out children's rights in an easy-to-read format.
Attempts to create mirror images of the developed world out of African societies would be disastrous.
Milk is a highly perishable food product and is an excellent medium for transmitting a variety of diseases.
We only pleaded for the change of the rules of the game.
This prevents the measles and polio virus from circulating among children.
You were not scared that you were going to get trampled?
The rapid response and alertness of police and security officials, ensured that the days of taking joyrides in hijacked trucks for these five men were counted.
Beach visitors are warned that the illegal selling of liquor is not allowed on the beach.
Fails to meet the standards of readiness for fire fighting.
Places like quarries and mines, are used for disposing household and industrial waste, and hazardous waste.
Further, Your Excellency, we should work together to encourage people-to-people contact, through cultural, scientific, educational and sports exchanges, as well as by promoting two-way tourism between our countries.
In addition SADC facilitator of the Zimbabwean deal, former president Thabo Mbeki, will also visit Harare to witness the swearing in ceremony.
Shortly, Mr Morgan Tsvangarai will be sworn in as the Prime Minister of Zimbabwe along with two deputy prime ministers.
Holmes went on to describe the difficulties in resolving issues that affect Darfur.
So there should only be one member of POP in the JOC?
Our paradigm intimates that shared growth and integrated development can only be achieved when five imperatives are strategically linked, in balance and elevated to the level of development principles.
This budget that I am presenting to you today has derived its authority on these pronouncements by the President.
Candice has broadened sensitivity to the issue of the empowerment of women with disabilities, through her work with Deaf Television.
The feedback of the consultative sessions had been processed and is currently being actioned.
Clearly, your continued support and solidarity with your brothers and sisters in South Africa enriches our efforts to accelerate the process of building a truly democratic, non-racial and non-sexist society.
But it would be reasonable to expect you to have conveyed this to Mr Grobbelaar when you eventually saw him?
Allegations against the man are that he stole the safe and disappeared after a resident spotted him.
Unaccredited media will not be allowed access to the venue.
With technical experts regarding specialised servicing requirements  including electrical supply and reticulation  and any special finishes.
For further information on Australia's topography and climate, go to Australia's National Mapping Agency.
The Cape Metrorail website provides up-to-date timetable, fee and route information.
I am familiar with the history of the struggles of Logra Civic and the communities it served and still does.
This indicates that these capturers' work must be directed to this authorizer.
Mr Skosana after you assisted at the field, helping obviously with the injured and then the bodies, what did you then do?
Global warming - A rise in average temperatures across the world caused by the greenhouse effect.
The IBA Act requires new licensees to develop a human resources strategy which is in compliance with corrective action.
It is a region of contrasts, from true bushveld country to majestic mountains, primeval indigenous forests, unspoilt wilderness and patchworks of farmland.
All of us gathered here know that we are emerging from a terrible past that ridiculed and sought to destroy our customs and despoil our traditions and religions.
South Africa's principled position continues to be the lifting of the economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba.
The re-allocation of resources to identified stations  in areas most affected by serious violent crime.
The continued effort to establish MPCCs confirms our commitment to disseminate government information directly to marginalised communities.
In all likelihood, yes, we're certainly all available to answer questions.
Drownings at the beachfront cause a lot of debate outside the Council.
South Africa remains the largest recipient of Spanish outward investment in Africa.
Like Nosipho, their daughter must also be occupied with her schoolbooks instead of being in courts.
Together with these groups, we are resolved collectively to put an end to the excesses against women and children.
Among the guests expected to attend the event is the Ambassador of the European Union.
Supply, delivery, installation, demonstration and commissioning of a hysteroscope set as described in the specification for use in hospital.
A robbery suspect, who engaged members of the SAPS' elite Task Forcein a cash-in-transit robbery was shot dead.
This initiative is to be undertaken by DEAT in close co-operation with the private sector.
To assist teachers find alternative means of disciplining children, the national Department of Education has released a document on alternative means of disciplining learners.
Focusing on IDP as a means of building stronger communities and building bridges between communities.
So what happens is after the game all the ticket sellers presumably go back to the room where Kaizer Chiefs has its control centre for tickets?
We have to acknowledge the value of our cultural landscapes as we seek to preserve our natural environments.
The cost of the service varies according to the tests that are required.
Cacadu also hosts the annual National Arts Festival  the largest arts festival in the southern hemisphere  held in the charming little city of Grahamstown.
Technology speeds up processes, creates greater transparency and helps ensure that officials are held accountable for providing the services they are supposed to deliver.
At every level beyond the school-whether in circuits, districts or areas-new structures will be needed, including new head offices.
Police vehicles on patrol in the surrounding areas were alerted to be on the look out for the vehicle.
To the Hindu astrologers of old, this constellation was Trishanku, named for the impatient King who sought to ascend to heaven before his time, and who now lies suspended midway.
South Africa and Malaysia enjoy excellent bilateral relations that are built on solid foundations and that are strengthened by regular high-level official visits and interaction between our respective business communities.
Serious breaches in discipline by MK cadres at times resulted in capital punishment.
Adverts will be placed in newspapers and every property owner, including owners of sectional title units, will receive assessments by post.
These are indicated in the table on the opposite page.
Unaccredited media will not have access to the Summit venue.
The health deprivation domain identifies areas with relatively high rates of people who die prematurely.
Live mass is a very useful statistic to have and is vitally necessary for feed budgeting purposes.
Totals include other and unspecified population group, sex and 'don't know' category of usage of welfare variable.
I wonder if you would introduce yourself and you colleague please.
This must be directed to meet the need for people-driven, sustainable resource management and the redress of past injustices and inequalities.
We urge motorists to be patient and extra cautious when travelling that stretch of road, especially now that winter is upon us.
From Bellville this vehicle was followed through a number of suburbs to a house in Macassar where the vehicle's occupants entered the residence.
Your application must be sent to one campus that is nearest to your place of residence.
The Workmen's Compensation Fund compensates workers who are disabled by accidents which happen at work.
Since returning, they have shown a tremendous improvement in performance, with some now occupying management positions.
Mechanisms to substantially promote and expand the amount of personal savings mobilized in the housing process.
Make hay or other dry roughages available to the cows.
I can't remember specifically whom I would have contacted but I am assuming that I probably would have liaised with Colonel Ben Steyn.
Music plays such a key role in developing our learners intellectually, emotionally and spiritually, and to improving the quality of life in society.
CP can reduce material costs by adopting product-packaging procedures that consume fewer resources, which will also reduce waste management and disposal costs.
Any major deviations in weekly consumption patterns might be a possible water leak on your property.
Against apartheid, they had to embark on another, no less arduous, struggle for unity, peace and development.
He realisedthat day that criminals are not selective, and that crimeaffects all of us.
The limited jurisdiction of lower courts in respect of causes of action should be revisited.
All decisions taken are communicated to all staff members in the department.
Infrastructure investment, and skills development, are the main frontiers ahead, these are journeys that have just begun, and they promise unbounded opportunities for discovery, unprecedented opportunities for initiative and partnership.
That our staff reconnects with the communities from which they come through a well-organised and carefully targeted internal volunteer programme aimed at serving the people of this province.
An elegant country lodge houses this smart restaurant that serves good lunches and a Sunday carvery.
The consistency of messages is also filtered down to the HIV programme.
The principle of universality and even-handedness should be applied and good relations pursued with all states in the area.
Pallo Jordan will announce plans in purchasing Downtown Studios in Johannesburg to turn it into a creative powerhouse for the creation and development of a uniquely South African musical sound.
Details of the application procedure are available on the website.
Purchased feeds are important for rounding off rough edges, but not as the basis of the feed supply.
This is a very vague and a very wide question.
The municipality would like to apologise for any inconvenience caused.
Mary Burton is one of the Commissioners in the Western Cape region and is a member of the Human Rights Violations Committee.
Further investigation led police to a man who allegedly bought Kole's cell phone from two men.
Some of the new and upgraded facilities are five clinical wards, a day theatre and four upgraded operating theatres, a main kitchen, a linen bank and a parking garage.
Your entry, as newly qualified diplomats into this ancient profession is marked by significant developments in Africa, in the multilateral arena and in the context of a rapidly globalising world.
However, the degree to which hospitals are planning their activities jointly with institutions in the communities they serve in order to improve outcomes and reduce inequities is very limited.
He said the effort of addressing the imbalances of the past was too costly for the government alone.
She remains convinced that the winner will do exceedingly well at the interdepartmental level.
To further improve efficiency, all members of staff attended training courses, internal and external workshops and in-service training sessions.
More will be expected of you, fellow councillors than has ever been expected of any councillors.
With the assistance of Airport Security officials, the police members apprehended and arrested the two suspects in the nearby vicinity.
Ms Nthutang said winning the award had encouraged them to work even harder to achieve more.
The complainant accompanied the Police while they searched the busy Springfield Industrial business district.
That's why today, we can all proudly say, South Africa is free, non-sexist, non-racial, democratic and upholds human rights.
All the publications released during this week are available for.
Thank you for your patience and your preparedness to assist Mr Loewe to get away a bit earlier.
Strengthen policy formulation in the area of environmental management and climate disruption specifically implementation of GHG reducing projects.
Fame and fortune have not diminished his simplicity and humanity.
In addition to learning about Music, the camp will provide plenty of time for music-making by the learners through performance in formal sessions and concerts in the evening.
Yes, that was not true, it was a blatant lie.
Undoubtedly, this situation contributes, in many respects, to the deepening of democracy within a country.
Science clubs are being encouraged at schools to inculcate a love and wonder for the sciences.
The cataloguing procedure is done according to the standard rules.
Ever since we parted he had gone to solve the problem with regard to the first gun that was dysfunctional.
While everything must be done to adequately arm the defence units we should not scorn the use of rudimentary weapons.
There are a number of allegations which have been made and counter-allegations.
We are basically going to pour a cold bath of reality in presenting our history.
We have also heard about the fact that business were victims of Apartheid and have never benefited from it.
In the latest construction milestone, the main support columns have reached their full height.
The South African government calls for caution to be exercised and on the Turkish authorities to continue with diplomatic efforts to deal with PKK attacks.
Unless the hay is fed back on the land from which it was made, high levels of potash  K  need to be top dressed annually.
Sky signs can be important landmarks in larger urban centres, and includes locality and non-locality bound signs.
Integrating the institutions within communities through their active participation in development, and the offering of adult-based education.
Those who are partial to a pint should try the Brew route.
Gumede said negotiations were promising and the company had shown a willingness to work with the City.
The role of higher education in promoting the language-based arts.
Would you describe the conduct of the police that night as pro-active?
Percentage of full supply capacity of the dams supplying the CCT with raw water for treatment.
Paraffin can cause severe burns, and paraffin stoves that are knocked over or explode are a major cause of injuries and fires in informal settlements.
Planning Profession Bill, which replaces previous legislation on town and regional planning, and broadens access to the profession while tightening ethical standards, which would govern town and regional planners.
After the ordeal, the girl left the classroom and was met by the caretaker on the steps.
Key to the thesis that they put forward is the simultaneous participation of multiple state and non-state actors.
Once the work on site is complete, a final inspection is held whereby the facilities are handed over to the householder and become the householders responsibility to maintain.
I would therefore like to make some observations in this regard.
She could even tell the police deploy your razor wire on the northern side of the stadium.
A story with a satisfactory ending that would be useful as a read-to and even a read alone.
The patterns and structure of a specific geographic area or place, including its natural, built and socio-economic environments.
There are no direct flights between South Africa and Iran.
A post-mortem will be conducted to determine the cause of death.
But if you question Dr Lourens he would confirm to you that we didn't even discuss the type of poisons or substances.
Sub-Saharan Africa supplies the EU with a significant volume of agricultural and mineral raw materials as well as gold and diamonds.
For this reason, Stats SA tends to emphasise certain price indices over others, at least in its high-level or executive summaries.
No, I merely responded to questions that were put across by my counsel.
I am very glad that the EU is becoming increasingly involved in co-operation with Africa.
I also do not know why was he not assaulted, but what I know for a fact is that Cebekhulu was also part of the people who were assaulting us.
The true face of our nation was seen in the remarkable empathy that was accorded the affected people.
Both black and white women were excluded from economic empowerment - including business opportunities and high-level jobs -simply because of their gender.
Well did you ever ask him why he did not return to Vlakplaas under his own steam?
The deceased's body was recoveredon the same day,lying in the streetwith multiple stab wounds.
They then went from incomplete involvement in the game of independent, arms-length reporting, to enthusiastic participation in full-involvement advocacy journalism for the liberation cause.
Chief Executive Officer of South African Tourism told reporters and dignitaries that the industry needed to pay more attention to reducing carbon emissions.
We know that in the past our armies have at times not played the role of peacemakers and peacekeepers.
Use a pressure cooker to conserve energy when you cook foods that take a long time, such as pot roasts and stews.
Patricia de Lille receives the HIV Aids activist award from a Canadian-based organization, South African Women for Women, for her commitment and dedication to fighting the Aids pandemic in Africa.
To debate and agree on national and sectoral environmental priorities that address existing development needs and capacity constraints.
Health preparations included setting standards for caterers, food security and contingency plans for possible disease outbreaks at the summit venues and headquarter hotels.
Avoid swimming or wading in fresh water which you suspect might be infected by bilharzia.
Poverty will also impact on the fabric of society and the likelihood of more single parent households, higher divorce rates and other social evils.
Also included is the manufacture of lubricating oils and greases primarily from other organic materials.
Mineral Economics' directories and bulletins are available in hard copy from the Publications Room.
Those genuinely committed to an African renewal must ensure that a new scramble for Africa does not take place.
How much a bank lends needs to be proportionate to the value of its assets.
There is an aura to this city, something intangible that seeps into your soul and never leaves.
Members of the community who noticed the incident helped the police to identify and arrest the suspects.
Thick frost on chilling panels reduces a fridge and freezer's cooling ability.
You may buy or obtain electronic copies of maps containing cadastral, zoning or street information from the department's district offices.
We urge the parties to adhere to the principles of the ceasefire agreement.
This may be the birthplace of mankind, but it is hardly surprising that humans sought other continents to live in.
Visitors parking is clearly marked and located within the hospital grounds, through the main gate.
Continue to support the legitimate struggle of the people of Western Sahara based on their right to self-determination.
In a new environment where private shareholding will become a reality, the rules within which the company is operating needs to be reassessed.
The report cited political empowerment of women in India as a key development, which augured well for the future.
The petroleum regulatory regime will inhibit monopolistic abuse of pipelines and storage facilities.
Inadequate facilities inevitably lead to an increase in both the extent and the severity of disablement.
Hospitals, clinics, nursing homes old age homes and other buildings from which the occupants cannot readily be removed in the event of an interruption of water supply.
And I understand that it is common knowledge that some years ago, the relationship between Chiefs and Pirates was a strained one, to put it mildly.
All the suspects are known in the area and have been fired a few months ago by the local security company.
He added that the unchanged trend patterns in retail, wholesale and motor trade are in line with findings in the new manufacturing short-term series.
A mixture of coastal fynbos and dune forest is present on the old dunes to the south of the lakes.
Conveyed in writing to the governing body concerned, giving reasons.
As I understand it, only selected people knew that Vlakplaas was busy doing eliminations for covert operations.
Mechanisms to give effect to this approach will be investigated as part of the National Waste Management Strategy.
Journalists are invited to join and report on the event.
Apparently there are two groups involved in the shooting incidents, and this attack was a retaliation against the killing of another youth last week.
To provide opportunities for new entrants to the labour market to gain work experience.
If you can compare it to the rankings in the old police ranks, what would that be equal to?
Apartheid was a vicious and misguided experiment in social engineering, which was doomed to failure from the outset.
Sweep the work area when finished to prevent slips and falls.
A systematic process has to be followed whereby every aspect of the IDP is amended to reflect the input gained from the previous activities.
Africa's rich natural resources, its underdeveloped infrastructure in transport, telecommunications and energy provide a rare opportunity for massive reconstruction and development partnerships between governments and the private sector world-wide.
The team who have made the difference in the area.
Well with the adaptations that are necessary for the South African situation.
The Director and staff of the Local History Museums invite you to visit the museums and we trust that your experience will be as enjoyable as it is rewarding.
The police are stillprofiling the suspects to establish if they had not been involved in violent crimes around the area and elsewhere.
International observers overseeing the elections have unanimously declared the elections free and fair.
Joining hands to preserve the environment and ensure sustainable development.
Abstain from all actions that might be perceived as fresh recruitment drives, particularly among children.
Now in your trial, as I understand it, you said that she assaulted you in several ways including sjambokking.
It is often difficult to separate half-truths from the facts and a system working on one farm does not necessarily apply to a neighbouring farm.
Extension workers will benefit from training as well as the improvement of information dissemination, collaborative research and materials.
I am inspired by these sentiments and have profound respect for the white and Afrikaner South Africans who have the courage to make them.
Add one year to the year in the bulling date.
I wonder whether the witness could go a little slower.
The arrest of the leader of a cash-in-transit gang operating in Gauteng.
There were just two of them left there to open the roller shutter gates should there be an evacuation.
There are lots of programmes in which we have co-operation including co-operation with the Tshwane University.
To my recollection, a previous sentence to that is that we do not have arms.
The prohibition of unfair business practices; the promotion of competition and the adoption of coherent trade development strategies.
The Map Navigation bar is used to navigate your way around a map.
Every component of government and society at large should be targeted.
Many countries have stationed military vessels in the area to provide protection for their nation's shippers.
Antarctica is one of the earliest and best examples of the successful potential globalisation holds for humankind.
I would like your comments to what my assertions are.
All of these partners have contributed materially to making this day the success that we intended it to be.
It is foreseen that with time this Fund will decrease, as electrification projects are completed.
More chemical possibilities have been developed and digitally virtually any colour combination is possible.
Working around the clock and following up various leads, the police arrested a twenty-year-old man in an informal settlement in the Stella area.
We need to bail out all of humankind from its social insensitivity, he added.
About half the commands in the SADF were given in English and about fifty percent of the commands were given in Afrikaans.
Cross-subsidies should have a minimal impact on the price of electricity to consumers in the productive sector of the economy.
No milk dealer shall re-freeze or cause or permit to be re-frozen or sell any ice cream which has thawed.
This is where the TRC has truly filled the many myriad of painful voids that need to be sensitively filled to heal for our future.
Madiba healed our wounds and established the rainbow nation very firmly.
There was a post to which slaves and convicted persons were tied while receiving corporal punishment.
I will develop a policy that will ensure wider accessibility and inclusivity for all our people throughout this province.
Click on the link below to access the relevant guideline.
During our first Community Schools Initiative Week, which was an inter-sectoral and transectoral effort, engaging all role-players, I witnessed some inspiring and creative activities.
The Buddhist Centre can be described as both a temple and a meditation centre and offers meditation classes and courses for the public.
The existence of a large number of unlicensed shebeens in the historically disadvantaged residential neighbourhoods can be directly linked to discriminatory liquor licensing legislation of the past.
I share your sentiments and I want to thank you and Mr Deputy-Chairman for giving me this opportunity.
We also have to strengthen the Public-Private-Partnerships and ensure that there are sufficient means and capacity to implement infrastructural and social programmes.
Today competitive cutting-edge economies are no longer only located in the Americas and in Europe.
When early in my ministry I became one of the exponents of reconciliation, many people, particularly my fellow sufferers in the liberation struggle, were surprised, and even shocked.
On Sunday night, the US cargo ship captain taken captive by Somali pirates was freed without injury after days of ordeal.
Free Parking right outside the shop you want to visit allows for hassle free buying and browsing.
They were implicated in rapes, robbery and break-ins in the area.
The pilot programme aims to reduce the number of fire incidents and deaths caused by fires and other related emergencies.
The SANDF must provide a conventional military deterrence, which demonstrates the capability and political will of the state to defend South Africa against aggression.
Too many learners are leaving the system and it would be very ironical if this was because schools are over-emphasising the target of an exemplary pass rate.
Small against a battalion, small against a brigade, small against a division?
Italian resources targeted the poorer regions in South Africa and are followed closely with South African developmental guidelines and priorities.
With the terminal building construction generally on programme, the slabbing and concrete pouring of the arrivals and departure levels have been completed in June.
It was stressed that it would not be an amnesty.
South Asian economies were largely insulated from the immediate fallout of the East Asian crisis.
Without tight management, input-based appointments are liable to incur higher costs and programme overruns.
No, in the crate in which I was there was no contact with people in other crates or the front of the truck.
So now you are in the same vehicle with him.
Once the girl had cleaned his room, he pushed her onto the bed and raped her.
Monitoring of specific functions and economic classifications by means of cost analyses and the introduction of efficiency indicators.
The three Chinese nationals arrested at the Swartkopfontein border post recently were all found guilty ona charge of possession of abalone.
This has been proven to assist in improving family relationships.
Waste treatment and disposal is regarded as a priority issue in all tiers of government and by decision makers.
I'm mentioning this because, each morning the receiving school lined its driveway to cheer on the runners as they ran in from a neighbouring school, up to five kilometres away.
We recognise our responsibility to play key roles in this unfolding challenge.
Risking traditional justice for the truth and reconciliation is a risk that takes much courage and strength.
You will have to work towards a point of convenience on which we can adjourn.
As subsidies are increasingly curtailed and phased out, dependents struggle to find alternative income sources.
We hope your structure will continue co-operating with the Commission.
I don't remember the other ones who assaulted me, but there were a lot of them who were assaulting.
En route consignments will be detained until further information is obtained from the Brazilian veterinary administration.
Parents or caregivers should be counselled about the potential risk of the child having been infected with the HIV virus.
Report any broken or flickering lights, dimly lit corridors, door that do not lock properly, or broken windows.
There is widespread acknowledgement that the government needs to play a more active role in stimulating development.
Eye muscles lose their precision and when both eyes cant focus on the same object, vision becomes blurred or you see double.
How to get robust economic growth that creates jobs, greater equity and decent livelihoods for all our citizens.
View our maps to find out how to get around.
She told us that she was contemplating holding a press conference in which she will publicly announce that she is resigning from the ANC.
We envisage a world order where we have substantially narrowed the gap between rich and poor.
The real obstacle is the Israeli obstinate stance from the one side, and the lack of effective intervention by the international community from the other.
The system will feature dedicated and segregated bus-only lanes, as well as bus stations that are safe, comfortable, weather-protected and friendly to disabled passengers.
This status quo model would be protected for three years before any new round of major restructuring of SABC services can be undertaken.
According to Thompson, the conference will open with the reconstruction of a high speed vehicle accident, demonstrating how such incidents should be managed.
Last week's release of manufacturing data contained an error, a miscalculation based on mistaken exclusion of data that had been collected.
This publication provides information for parents around measles and polio vaccinations.
It is not an easy process but we are hoping to reach a solution soon, so that the Burundians can begin the process of rebuilding their country.
I do not know in that sentence what is being conveyed.
The National Youth Service will locate its programmes within the national development objectives already articulated by Government.
Minister Radebe said four proposals were received in response to the RFP and the preferred bidders would be announced within the next few weeks.
All special schools are developed so as to eventually function as resource centres to full-service schools.
During the fight, the suspect produced a knife and stabbed the victim on the head and in the chest.
I am glad that Mike had the opportunity to visit the new South Africa and witnessed the achievements thus far.
CITES works by subjecting international trade in specimens of selected species to certain controls.
I think it was about four o'clock our time, I stand corrected on that, please.
I am pretty excited to be able to have tickets when thousands and thousands of people want to get them, said Todd, a lobbyist who lives in Washington.
The business sector will be encouraged to create environments which are supportive of family life, for example, through granting leave at times of family crises.
The suspect was released in the custody of his parents until he has to appear in court on a rape charge.
A reconnaissance licence will not entitle the holder thereof to a prospecting or mining right.
Assessing the arms control and non-proliferation implications, with the objective of being a responsible purchaser of defence equipment.
Do you concede that they could have been misused?
I am not going to answer any questions with regard to Ikaneng.
Yes there were two people in the crate right at the back.
This statement masks a less obvious truism for statistics: the ways of measuring the economy cannot be stagnant.
Support will be given to the full operationalisation of these vital services.
Historical warming trend in daily maximum and minimum temperatures for a location in the Swartland.
Five men, four of them scholars and the fifth one a security guard appeared in the Madikwe Magistrates' Courton charges of housebreaking and theft.
This was subsequent to the arrest of Mabotha and it was then handed to me by the security branch.
Members serve as tutors or mentors in schools, run after-school programmes, plan and host day camps for kids, and help rebuild neighbourhoods, in very much the way you are doing.
These assist with business counselling and advice, training, information and networking.
The suspects released her and she told her mother what had happened. Her mother called the police.
Habitat Month highlights the importance of a clean environment and the need for provision of housing for the homeless.
She denies that she ever intervened in an assault that was taking place that you mention.
When they contain mistakes and are not corrected, they create an environment of doubt and mistrust.
We need such a cadre of people in order to continue improving the lives of our people.
Well for the moment you will be pleased to know that your pick-up truck is here so that you should be excused and released and should not miss your flight.
After the fore milk comes the richer hind milk, which contains extra fat and energy, so the baby will feel full and grow strong.
Do you say that in your opinion you were sent to the Caprivi to be trained as hit squads?
At the time of our gathering in Yokohama, we could not have inferred when the commodity super-cycle and boom phase would end.
No I would have to revert to the fact that you have.
However, contributions to that debate will invariably be more constructive if they are informed and based on verified information, rather than speculation presented as fact.
This led to the process that finally we had to liquidate or subsidise the company with no prediction of the results thereof.
What we often dismiss as chaos and disorder, reveals our own inability to connect with processes and networks happening beyond our own reality and norms.
South Africa had become a pariah state internationally and the people in SA had rendered the country ungovernable.
Many schools and educational institutions which were meant for the deprived majority is still ill-equipped, and in many instances run by inadequately trained staff.
Be suitable for the affordability levels of South African communities.
It essentially envisages an equitable allocation of resources and, by implication, resources of an acceptable quality.
The causes of flood related problems and determination of possible mitigation measures were assessed.
The processes that must be operative in order to secure production.
It is a vote of confidence in our future and a chance to make a difference.
During our own struggle against apartheid, we gained strength from your own heroism and steadfastness.
The basis of funding should in principle be programme-based, in line with the NQF and as a means of promoting flexibility and responsiveness among diverse providers.
The various regional economic blocs that are in existence were also formed for the reason of improving the quality of life.
Inside the house they found housebreakingequipmentstogether with electronic appliances believed tohave beenstolen.
Availability of innovative public and private sector funding instruments for implementing the strategy and investigate the viability of establishing a Strategic Nanotechnology Fund.
Keep temporary lighting readily available and be sure to locate these items in places where they will be easy to find in the dark.
Among our fundamental concerns must be to create opportunities and possibilities for development partnerships between groupings on the African continent and in the Diaspora and through public-private partnerships.
This government has always believed that a good education is the key to breaking the shackles of poverty in countless downtrodden communities throughout the Western Cape.
The Zulu word 'ubuntu' articulates a shared vision leading to communal responsibility for sustaining life on our planet.
I realised that they were avoiding the sidewalk, because where there were sidewalks, they were littered with muddy pools.
The compilation estimates is reliant on a wide range of social and economic statistics.
This gathering of great minds must be seized with challenges that our continent is grappling with.
And that no formal training needs to be undertaken as such by the inventing or security company.
If I am not mistaken it was ten to eight.
We were not held up in a consulate, and he was not there.
In the Court for an order of reinstatement of such rights.
She has called for all parties in the conflict to minimise the suffering of the civilians and facilitate humanitarian access.
What seems perfectly clear is that the use of force, on its own, will only beget yet more killings.
Mr Vice-President, I am confident that the Fourth Session will see a further consolidation of existing co-operation, as well as the formalisation of yet unexplored areas of co-operation.
Our Bi-national Commission, already in its fifth year of existence, presents us with the ideal platform for co-ordinating and joining our efforts in this regard.
Correctly, the Government of the United States has emphasized that all action that is carried out must be clearly targeted against the terrorists.
First, the Agency has been able to verify the non-diversion of declared nuclear material in Iran.
She basically eats a hearty breakfast and sticks to eating small meals with regular intervals during the day which includes fish and chicken.
These two disparate groups of people have over time been assimilated into a single population group.
Spare a thought for those who have no access, either through lack of computers, electricity or connectivity.
The suspects were arrested for crimes ranging from attempted murder, assault with an intent to cause grievous bodily harm, shoplifting, theft, crimen injuria, possession of dagga and fraud.
Many journalists do attend our events and conduct the necessary interviews but fail to follow-through with relevant and interesting stories in the media.
He was told to do so by Brigadier Basson, who was your project officer in charge of the institution.
Details of the Thursday meeting will be communicated in due course.
The Mayor's beach walk-about is on again and is scheduled to take place this Friday.
Khanya, which makes a critical contribution to the overall objective of the provisioning of education in this province, relies on partnerships with the private sector and civil society.
We learnt that we should always search for the truth and not be happy with repeating dogma, however widespread the belief that such dogma represented the truth.
And so let us return to the matter of diamonds.
The City of Cape Town's improved debt collection programme, sound liquidity and hands-on management has earned the City an upgraded credit rating.
So all of you were in fact stripped naked and sjambokked.
I take it that he had fired on that child.
Personal hygiene is of the utmost importance in avoiding infection and avoiding infecting others.
But, our firm belief and commitment is to be biased towards the poor and the previously disenfranchised.
The amount of waste disposed per capita per year in cape Town.
Special parking has been arranged on a part of the Grand Parade and in Queen Victoria and Wale Streets.
Options can be set by selecting the check boxes and clicking on the Apply button.
Donations are also given by the public for breeding and training purposes.
Geomorphologically their closest counterparts in southern Africa are those on the coast of the Mozambique Plain.
The police in Edenburg arrested four suspects last night for Dealing in Dagga.
Some of the structuring and organising principles of these five generic sets are outlined in the following pages.
Cabinet noted progress in operationalising the co-ordinated Industrial Strategy for Petroleum, Gas and Petrochemical Sectors.
NECSA undertakes and promotes research and development in the fields of nuclear energy, radiation sciences and technology, medical-isotope manufacturing, nuclear liabilities management, waste management and decommissioning.
Heavy worm infestations often cause diarrhorrea and thus the first two problems are closely related.
The situation is volatile: correspondents have reported that explosions could be heard in many areas of the city overnight.
The City also thanked those residents who had come forward and stuck to their repayments agreements.
The provisions of the Convention in relation to any specialized agency must be interpreted in the light of the functions with which that agency is entrusted by its constitutional instrument.
Houses  often of a temporary nature  erected on land of which the majority have not formally been proclaimed and serviced for residential use.
The scope for bilateral shipping agreements which will enable South African shipping interests to access markets which are currently inaccessible will be explored.
Step-down wards were funded for the first time last year, to ensure continuing in-patient care for patients too ill for complete discharge.
We must not duplicate initiatives that already exist, but rather seek to establish linkages and synergies.
In the pursuit of some understanding of our universe, scientists over the ages have devoted their minds to the astronomical sciences.
Heads of Government were disappointed by the reluctance of the Security Council to take immediate action in response to appeals for assistance by the Government of Haiti.
It's ironical that this term can now be used to aptly describe statements made recently.
Forced removals, the implementation of the group areas act, forcibly removed thousands of people from their homes and businesses causing hardship, aggravation and loss of income.
For example, fruit growers will need a team of air-conditioned trucks to get produce to the correct sites.
Ultimately, we cannot have a strong and prosperous society unless we have many millions of strong and prosperous individuals who can contribute to the success of their communities.
In this connection the necessary substances of methaqualone and a number of derivatives thereof were manufactured.
Reduction of import tariffs exemptions for equipment like solar water heaters which are currently in short supply nationwide and globally.
The police contacted several companies to find out whether the wires belonged to them and a representative from Telkom identified some of the wires as belonging to their company.
The LOC also assured fans and participating teams that they need not worry about security during both events following the attack on Sri Lankan cricket players in Pakistan on Tuesday.
They plan to paint and repair rooftops and windows, and provide each household with a letterbox.
Do you remember the spot where the plane landed?
Many of the City Centre vagrant and homeless people have been displaced to the South Durban Basin.
Systematic attack against the army and police and the so-called area defence units in the white areas.
They are promising to meet the research and human capital development needs for both the academic and entrepreneurial sectors, and have created policies, mechanisms and instruments for supporting biotechnology innovation.
But I referred to them to emphasise the centrality of the peasant question in the struggle for the renewal of our continent.
DSW is also appealing to residents to keep their dogs within the boundaries of their fenced property to prevent staff working in the area from being bitten.
The curriculum and all assessment is developed around these desired outcomes.
While there he also checked on the newly improved facilities of the children's ward.
It has moved from being one of the poorest countries in Europe to being amongst the richest with a very high standard of living.
The entire country with its dense rain forests, wildlife, and rivers offers an important opportunity for ecotourism.
The principle of non-discrimination should be upheld in all policies, administrative practices and laws relating the land delivery process.
I parked it next to the garage.
To ensure that the coastal zone of Cape Town is protected a new and integrated approach to coastal management is needed.
There is a need to review the ecological effect of shark nets.
He actually came to request that we must facilitate his route back to Lusaka.
Ms Li, however, admitted that there were other reasons to cause traffic jams besides the number of cars.
Improved management of medical waste and a reduction in illegal disposal and in the amount of non-infectious waste arriving at treatment facilities.
To fight xenophobia effectively, we must look at the root causes of xenophobia and also how these root causes are being exploited by criminal elements.
I believe we have enough elements to say that we are in a stabilisation phase, Minister Cordova said.
The scope for bilateral shipping agreements which will enable South African shipping interests to access markets which are currently inaccessible should be explored.
A way forward is that the resumed negotiations in July in Bonn may produce decisions that are more acceptable to the US than the current drafts.
In Oudtshoorn media consolidated a division and suspicion caused by apartheid between different communities.
Sport for disabled people should be 'mainstreamed' as far as possible to increase sponsorship value.
This document is aimed at defining the functioning of the Sub-Directorate: Development Information Services in order to effectively manage its business.
Creditor payments are specifically for the Order payments, and the Sundry payments are specifically for non-order payments.
The submission to Treasury for a Restructuring Grant was noted and will be workshopped even further over the next few weeks.
Exercise your verbal dexterity the way musicians develop digital dexterity - by exercising frequently.
An independent appeal mechanism will be set up to handle cases where an aggrieved party has failed to obtain a satisfactory response from government.
So your answer is then you never went through any turnstile at Ellis Park that night?
In this context, our work as parliamentarians from different and far-flung places becomes even more crucial.
The creation of free-standing lots will in each instance be the preference of the Ethekwini Municipality in order that new residential opportunities be created.
The suspects were arrested following a complaint to the police by three victims who already paid the suspects money to obtain Identity Documents in return.
The area is subdivided into five different wards, with each having its own councillor.
Two en-suite double rooms, all with private entrances on large quiet property.
Suspects name will be available after she appears in court.
To comparatively assess the two methodologies to determine the suitability thereof to select sites suitable unsuitable for wind energy developments in the Western Cape.
There is a need to review the ecological effects of shark nets.
Members of the police in Naboomspruit achieved great success when they arrested four suspects who allegedly stole diesel from eight bulk fuel transport trucks at the truck stop last week.
I would ask that that should be corrected because Mr Mealosa was the one who approached me.
Whilst the DSR has the overall responsibility of monitoring the movement of participants through the sports development continuum, it has a particular role in mobilising non-participants, through its recreation programme.
Allelopathic effects of annual weed residues on growth and nutrient uptake of corn and soyabeans.